
December 09, 2016 11:12 IST

Rajya Sabha, Lok Sabha adjourned till December 14

Furore over demonetisation continued to rock Parliament on Friday too and both the Houses were adjourned till December 14. The Lok Sabha was adjourned amid continuous protest by members, and in the case of the Rajya Sabha, lack of quorum forced the Chair to adjourn the House.Following are the updates of Parliament proceedings on Friday:Rajya Sabha | 2.53 p.m.Despite a three line whip by the BJP, the Chair had to adjourn the House for the day due to lack of quorum.Only 18 members present in the House of 25 required. Of the 18, three were ministers.Lok Sabha | 12.05 p.m.Chair adjourns House till December 14.House Committee proposes the suspension of AAP member Bhagwant Mann for the current session and the House accepts the motion.Rajya Sabha | 12 p.m.House reconvenes.BJP's Muktar Abbas Naqvi says, ''For 70 hours there have been disruptions. There are so many important issues being discussed. Either allow question hour or resume discussion. At least, consider what the President said yesterday. The nation will not forgive you.''Interruptions erupt.Chairman Hamid Ansari says, "Nothing can be done in this din." Adjourns House till 2.30 p.mLok Sabha | 12 p.m.House resumes session.Speaker disallows all notices of adjournment motion on demonetisation, says it can be raised through other opportunities.Opposition members raise objection.Rajya Sabha | 11.35 a.m.Disorder prevails.Smriti Irani asks, ''So we want a House that function under rules? Can we go ahead with the business?''Rupala (BJP): ''I want to assure the people that government will intervene if prices go below maximum selling price.''Opposition shouts slogans saying, "anti-farmer government won't do"Members troop into the well of the House.Hosuse adjourned till 12 p.m.Lok Sabha | 11.30 a.m.Session resumes. So do the protests.Mallikarjun Kharge (Congress) requests for "immediate discussion on demonetisation and it's repercussions."Meenakshi Lekhi quotes the President to accuse a section of Opposition members of disrupting proceedings.Parliamentary Affairs Minister Ananth Kumar seeks apology from the Opposition for wasting public money. He accuses the Congress, the Trinamool and Left parties of unnecessarily disrupting the House proceedingsHouse adjourned till noon.                       Rajya Sabha | 11.30 a.m.Sharad Yadav of the JD(U) says ""Wheat prices have decreased around the world. Wheat and rice are major crops... I appeal to the government to take back decision if there is enough wheat.''Jairam Ramesh (Congress): ''The issue is not buffer stock of wheat, but production. If buffer stock is high and there is good monsoon, why is import duty being waived? Companies from US, France, Russia and Ukraine will benefit. In the 50th anniversary year of the Green Revolution, the farmer has no cash. And you are saying thank you, we will help foreign companies. Foreign upliftment''.                       Rajya Sabha | 11.20 a.m. Revti Raman Singh from the SP and BSP's Mayawati agree with CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury. "Wheat will sell at the price of dust," says Revti Raman Singh.              "The government decision is anti-farmer. Farmers will suffer unless they reconsider," says Ms. Mayawati. Paswan (Minister): ''We have no dearth of wheat.''                       Bhupendra Yadav: ""Opposition sent notice under 267 on demonetisation, But when on one notice discussion is incomplete, how can you give another.''Deputy Chairman P.J. Kurien disallows the motion as the first one is still pending.Rajya Sabha | 11.10 a.m.Mr. Yechury says, "Government has decided to reduce wheat import duty. A shame after green revolution. They are ruining the farmers. They are afraid that after demonetisation there may be food riots. So a zero percent import duty on imports!"Mr. Yechury gives notice under Section 267."Farmers don't have cash. This step is anti-national," he says.Lok Sabha | 11.00 a.m.House pays tributes to those martyred in the 2001 terror attack on Parliament. Both sides seek time to speak. House adjourned till 11.30 a.m.-----------------------------------Following is today’s business in Parliament:Lok Sabha:Bill to be introduced:The National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research (Second Amendment) Bill, 2016.Bills for consideration and passing:The Admiralty (Jurisdiction and Settlement of Maritime Claims) Bill, 2016.The Mental Healthcare Bill, 2016.The Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Bill, 2016.Private Members’ BusinessFurther discussion under Rule 193 on demonetisation of currency notes to weed out black money.Rajya Sabha:Private Members’ Business;Further discussion on demonetisation of currency;Bill for consideration and return:The Taxation Laws (Second Amendment) Bill, 2016. Bills for consideration and passing:The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Bill, 2014.The Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (Prevention and Control) Bill, 2014.The Employee’s Compensation (Amendment) Bill, 2016
