
November 14, 2016 13:58 IST

Demonetisation: Modi says the poor are with him

As he stressed that the poor strongly backed his decision to demonetise currency notes, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday questioned the moral authority of his political opponents, especially the Congress, in criticising his step as anti-poor and anti-common man. He invoked the Emergency days under former PM Indira Gandhi, accusing the Congress of enforcing it to only “save Ms. Gandhi’s seat.”  In contrast, Mr. Modi asserted, his decision to scrap notes of high demonetisation was taken in the “interest and happiness of the poor,” the good of the country and the farmer. ''The Congress is worried about people. They enforced Emergency and turned this nation into a jail for 19 months. They restrained newspapers and arrested people who spoke up. Did you do this to fight corruption and the welfare of people?  You did it only to save the throne of your PM, Indira Gandhi,” Mr. Modi said.Addressing a parivartan rally in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur a day after his emotional speech in Goa, the PM reiterated his appeal to people to lend him time, 50 days, and patience to complete the “big task,” a “mahayagna of honesty,” of unearthing black money. He hinted that a door-to-door operation against black money would have taken years and stressed he was left with only “one solution," — scrapping notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1000.As he tried to justify his decision as ‘pro-poor,’ and gather public support, he said the demonetisation had equalised the rich and the poor. His government stood for the “for the poor, the villages and the farmers.” “India has no shortage of wealth but where is this wealth stored that is a problem. There is little where it is supposed to be, and it is hoarded at places where it should not be.”The PM, addressing his first rally in poll-bound UP after the mega overhaul, acknowledged the common citizen faced hardship due to the sudden scrapping of high denomination notes. He said he could “experience the suffering” of the “average honest citizen” and was staying up all night, using his “mind and power” to reduce the hardship and would continue to do so.  He promised he would not allow the “money of the poor to be looted.”  Urging people to bear the distress for a few days, he equated the situation as similar to a family’s tolerance of the pungent smell of wall paint for the larger good of decorating the house for a marriage.  There is discomfort in whatever you do, only the “intention behind it must be well-meaning,” he said, to assuage the anxiety of common people whose lives have been sent for a toss due to the crisis in supply of legal tender.Pushing the point, Mr. Modi referred to his own background as a tea-seller. “My decision is kadak (strong). When I was a child, the poor would especially ask me to make kadak chai. The poor is fond of kadak chai. I have a habit since childhood of making kadak chai. The kadak tea suits the poor but warps the expression of the rich,” the PM said.Mr. Modi also hailed the role of the State in his fight against corruption by helping his party win a full majority at the Centre. “It is the power of your vote that the poor is sleeping peacefully and the rich is running around the bazaar to buy sleeping pills.”Targeting his opponents for criticising his move, Mr. Modi wondered why they were so worried by the scrapping of high-denomination currency.  He took a veiled dig at BSP chief Mayawati, who has condemned the demonetisation as an “undeclared financial emergency,” raking up the “garland of notes” she receive in the past on her birthday.In a departure from his teary-eyed address in Goa, the PM disparaged the Congress for asking under which law he had scrapped the notes, reminding them of previous Congress government’s decision to do away with the 25 paise. “What law did you apply then? Whom did you ask? It is another matter you cannot think beyond the 25 paise. You did something of your level, while we worked according to our level,” Mr. Modi said.The PM dared “all leaders misleading the people in the name of honesty” to show guts and publicly declare “if notes of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000, corruption, black money and dishonesty should continue?”Mr. Modi asked people if he should be frightened by powerful forces hurt by his decision, even as he reiterated he would have to face consequences for it.  “I know what I will have to face because those whose coffers are full are powerful. They can buy governments and even bring them down. They can destroy fates of the best of us. But tell me, shall I be frightened of such people, and leave the path of honesty?" he said.Amid reports of old currency notes found floating in the Ganga at various locations, Mr. Modi attacked those hoarding money, saying, “You sinners! Your sins will not be washed away by immersing notes in the Ganga.” While accusing Pakistan of supplying fake currency to support Naxalims and terrorism in India, he asked, “Should we allow the enemies to make their move? I ask the leaders in the fight against terrorism and Naxalism, should we not terminate fake currency?”Mr. Modi recalled the promise he made to the people during the Lok Sabha elections that he would fight corruption. “Should I not do what you asked me to do, end corruption? Am I not doing your work if I scrap notes of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000?  Will you face the hardships and suffering that come with it? When the villagers are ready to face such hardships, there is no place for the dishonest in India.”Minutes before the rally, the PM, accompanied by Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu and his colleague and local MP, Manoj Sinha, flagged off the new Shabd Bhedi Express Train between Ghazipur and Kolkata and laid the foundation stone of the Ghazipur-Ganga rail bridge, a demand from the time of Nehru. Mr. Modi said he deliberately picked November 14, the first prime minister’s birthday, to launch the projects to highlight the Congress’ indifference towards impoverished Purvanchal. “I deliberately picked November 14 to come here, so that on his birthday people who are misleading people know that from 1962 to 2016 you did not turn an eye to the region. Wherever your soul rests, Panditji, the aspirations of these poor people were locked away in papers and files after you went away. Even if your party and family throws false allegations on me, on your birthday I want to finish that incomplete work.”Mr. Modi invoked Nehru referring to an emotional speech made in Parliament in 1962 by Ghazipur ‘s then MP Vishwanath Gahmari to draw the then PM’s attention to the abject poverty of Purvanchal.  Consequently, Nehru had formed the Patel Committee, which outlined the necessary developments needed in the region. However, nothing came of it, Mr. Modi lamented.  “PMs came and went. I am the ninth from the State but nothing happened of that report,” Mr . Modi said as he pitched his government’s crop insurance scheme, AIIMS and fertilizers plants in Gorakhpur as “honest thought” towards the development of the region, among the most backward in the country. Mr. Modi also accused his opponents of instigating household women through “rumours that he had taken away all their savings for their daughter’s marriages,” while assuring them they would not be bothered by the IT department.  “My mothers and sisters, till your brother [Modi], is alive, you must be assured that no government officer will be put an eye on your hard-saved money. Deposit your money without any worry. My government will even provide you interest for the marriage of your child. The Income Tax department will not bother you at all about your Rs 2.5 lakh. But should I spare those who with Rs 2.5 crore, those who hide stacks of notes under their bed and gunny bags?'' 
