
January 11, 2017 12:29 IST

Demonetisation has ruined the economy, says Rahul

“Daro Mat” (do not fear) was a combative Rahul Gandhi’s rallying cry to the Congress rank and file on Wednesday, ahead of the Assembly elections in five key States, even as he lit into Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing him of destroying the economy through demonetisation while frightening and intimidating not just the people — but also the media.“This is a fight between two philosophies. This fight is thousands of years old,” he said, adding, “The Congress’s philosophy says, do not fear. The other philosophy says instil fear and scare them…Look at the BJP: its aim is to scare the people — fear terrorism, Maoism, demonetisation. In two-three months, they have spread this fear.”Addressing a packed Talkatora Stadium here, he said the Congress would unseat the BJP in the general election of 2019. Mr. Gandhi’s speeches, delivered in a mix of Hindi and English, were sharp in tone. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh cautioned the people that the worst was yet to come in the wake of demonetisation, which he termed a “disaster.” He dismissed as “hollow” Mr. Modi’s claim that things had started looking up. 

Also Read





BJP dubs it a comedy show




Mr. Rahul Gandhi asked party workers to tell people that if they had been rendered jobless, they were still guaranteed 100 days’ work under the MGNREGA and that no one could take away their land without paying the market price for it, as the Modi government was trying to do.Mr. Gandhi’s speech, delivered in a mix of Hindi and English, were sharp in tone. But he sought to set himself apart from the abrasive style of BJP leaders by stressing he did not hate the BJP or the RSS, only its ideology that the Congress would eventually defeat. And if the Congress vice-president has often been the butt of Mr. Modi’s ridicule, he paid him back in the same coin, mimicking his tone, especially his fondness for starting his speeches with “Mitron” (friends).He also lampooned the PM, using a song of Amitabh Bachchan starrer, Namak Halaal, to say, “Aapka toh lagta hai bas yahi sapna, ram ram japna garibo kaa maal apna (It seems your dream is to take away poor’s money while chanting Ram’s name)”.The daylong national convention was attended by close to 6,000 of the party’s top leaders.
