
January 03, 2017 00:25 IST

Demonetisation a historic blunder, says Karnataka Minister

 Minister for Medical Education Sharanprakash Patil has termed the Union government’s ban on high denomination currency as a historic blunder. Addressing a press conference here on Monday, the Minister said that the “short-sighted move” would adversely impact the economy in the long run. Pointing at the proclaimed purposes of demonetisation – curbing black money and counterfeit notes and drying sources of terror funding, Mr. Patil demanded that the Union government present a White Paper on the issue.“How much black money is unearthed after demonetisation? How much economic loss has been incurred and how many new jobs have been created? How many people have lost their lives thanks to the crisis after November 8 and why compensation is not paid to the families of the victims? What consultations and preparations were made before enforcing demonetisation? And can the Union government make public the names of people who have deposited Rs. 25 lakh or more in bank accounts in the last six months?,” he said. Mr. Patil attributed the BJP’s reluctance to debate the issue in Parliament to its fear of cross-voting from its own members. “BJP parliamentarians too are opposed to demonetisation. That is why the party is not ready to put the issue for voting in Parliament. It is not ready to debate the issue even in the Lok Sabha where it has a majority,” he said.To a question, Mr. Patil said that that the stress on cashless economy was an afterthought to cover up the Union government’s failure in addressing currency crisis caused by demonetisation. “Ill-prepared demonetisation of high denomination resulted in currency shortage and led to inconvenience. People will have to continue to suffer as it takes at least a year to print notes to fill the gap created by demonetisation. In order to cover up its failure, the idea of cashless economy through digital transaction is floated to divert the people’s attention,” he said. The idea, he added, was bound to fail as an overwhelming majority of people in the country don’t have bank accounts, debit cards or smart phones to carry out cashless transactions. “It is the only country in the world where common people have restrictions to get their own hard-earned money from banks,” he said. Responding to a question, Mr. Patil slammed the BJP for unleashing attacks on critics of demonetisation in the social media. 
