
March 20, 2017 18:33 IST

Opposition attacks govt. on note ban, NPAs, farmers’ plight

 Opposition on Monday attacked the government for its demonetisation move, burgeoning NPAs and failing to provide succour to farmers, saying financial support for various schemes for the welfare of poor have been slashed in the Union Budget.Participating in the resumed discussion on the General Budget, the House also saw a BJP member rebutting the opposition charges saying adequate monetary support has been given to welfare schemes like MGNREGA and Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana.Resuming the debate, BJP MP Shankarbhai Bhegad welcomed the initiatives announced by Finance Minister Arun Jaitley in the 2017-18 budget for the welfare of the people and said the government has announced plans to electrify all villages by 2019 and every village in the country will be provided drinking water facility.He said adequate funds have been allocated for housing schemes for the poor, Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, MNREGA, Ujwala scheme among others. He also referred to the utility of cow dung and urine for organic farming and appealed for protection of cows.SP member Naresh Agarwal targetted Jaitley for meeting with capitalists but not the farmers before finalising the budget.Highlighting the farmers’ plight, he said “the farmers are not getting minimum support price today. They promised that GDP would grow but it is declining now. If GDP goes down to 6 per cent, then youth will come on the streets.” Referring to massive victory of BJP in Uttar Pradesh, he said “it was the PM’s victory and not that of the BJP.” In an apparent reference to Yogi Adityanath’s elevation as Chief Minister of the state, Mr. Agarwal said “we had seen the political image, we have to see the administrative image. We have given six months time to the new government before commenting on its performance.” Expressing concern over growing non-performing assets (NPAs) of banks, he said “the government should inform how much promissory notes were issued by RBI before demonetisation and how much have been returned. Whether any black money has returned to the country.” Agarwal also questioned the government on the issue of farm loan waiver, asking how can the loans of nationalised banks be waived off.He also referred to a statement of State Bank of India CMD that farmers’ loans cannot be waived off and the situation will further deteriorate if they are.
