
November 28, 2016 10:56 IST

Government tables amendments to Income Tax Act in Lok Sabha

After a week of ruckus over the demonetisation move, Parliament proceedings began on Monday. Following furore over the issue, both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha were adjourned till Tuesday. Rajya Sabha | 2.30 p.m.Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad says, "This is the first time the Prime Minister has made an announcement without making a statement in Parliament. We must discuss the issue but the leader who announced it must be here."Opposition members storm the well of the House shouting slogans.House adjourned till Tuesday.Lok Sabha | 2.15 p.m.House adjourned till Tuesday.Rajya Sabha | 2.15 p.m.Anand Sharma of the Congress says, "The Consitution says that no person can be deprived of their property. The laws don't vest any authority with the Prime Minister or the Finance Minister to deny people their right to property."There have been 34 notifications, he continues, and not one has been tabled in this House. "Article 360 gives powers to the government to impose a financial emergency. It has to be with the approval of the President and only salaries of government employees can be reduced. This is illegality," he says."This is a matter, which falls within the scope of the discussion," says Deputy Chairman P.J. Kurien.Rajya Sabha | 2 p.m.Furore in the House as Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi of the BJP demands an apology from the Opposition for an unparliamentary phrase. Mr. Kurien, in the Chair, consults about the unparliamentary nature of the language used.After much discussion, Mr. Kurien states that the word has been declared unparliamentary.Lok Sabha | 2 p.m.Government tables amendments to the Income Tax Act to penalise post-November 8 deposits above the threshold of Rs. 2.5 lakh.Lok Sabha | 12.15 p.m."There is a need for the government to take suggestion from the Opposition," says BJD's Bhartruhari Mahtab.Amaravati MP Anandrao Adsul of the Shiv Sena says that rural areas are bearing the brunt of demonetisation. "Money has not reached rural banks."Home Minister Rajnath Singh says that the government is ready for discussion. "The Prime Minister will come here. Not a single person has questioned the intent of the government."House adjourned until 2 p.m.Lok Sabha | 12 noonProceedings resume. Speaker Sumitra Mahajan disallows adjournment motion on demonetisation.Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge says people are facing huge difficulties due to the demonetisation move. "We are against black money. It's only the way the decision is being  implemented that we are opposed to. To end this deadlock, the Prime Minister should come to the House."Samajwadi Party chief Mulayam Singh says he supports Mr. Kharge's statement. "Farmers are suffering the most. The Prime Minister should give a statement."Rajya Sabha | 12 noonHouse Chairman Hamid Ansari takes the Chair.Mr. Azad says, "I want to make it clear that 18 Opposition parties decided on Jan Akrosh Diwas. There was no discussion of Bharat bandh. Only the Prime Minister mentioned Bharat bandh. So he is responsible for it. But there is anger among people. Seventy-five people have died after demonetisation."House adjourned until 2 p.m.Rajya Sabha | 11.40 a.m.House reconvenes. Opposition members begin walking towards the well. Shouting of slogans resumes.CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury demands the Prime Minister's presence in the House. Mr. Naqvi says that the discussion should begin. "This is opposition not of demonetisation but of barricading out of black money. Why should the Prime Minister apologise? For blocking black money?"Mr. Kurien says, "The best way to express anger is to resume the discussion." Mr. Yechury keeps up his demand for the Prime Minister's presence.Mr. Anand Sharma says, "He has spoken outside Parliament yesterday and on Friday. He is insulting Parliament."House adjourned until 12 noon.Lok Sabha | 11.15 a.m.Proceedings continue even as Opposition members shout slogans. Question Hour continues.The Speaker adjourns the House until 12 noon.Lok Sabha | 11 a.m.Opposition starts shouting slogans as Question Hour begins. The Speaker asks Opposition members not to display placards in the House.Opposition members shout slogans and storm into the well of the House. They demand adjournment for a discussion on demonetisation.Rajya Sabha | 11 a.m.Mr. Ansari takes the chair. He begins the day's proceedings with an obituary reference to Fidel Castro. "The House joins the bereaved family, the government and people of Cuba in mourning the passing away of Commander Fidel Castro," he says. The House observes two minutes of silence.Mr. Kurien takes the chair, asking for papers to be laid on the table.Mr. Azad begins speaking on the difficulties faced by people due to demonetisation. Opposition members storm the well of the House.House adjourned for 30 minutes.
