
November 13, 2016 23:29 IST

Do not believe in rumours: Modi to farmers

 Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday asked citizens and farmers not to belive in rumours being floated after he introduced the demonetisation policy on November 8.“Farmers are being misled that Modi will tax them. I assure my farmer sisters and brothers, no one will tax you. This nation belongs to you. This money is yours. This bank is yours. This Modi is yours,” he said. The PM was in the city to inaugurate an international conference and exhibition on the ‘Sugarcane Value Chain – Vision 2025’, organised by the Vasantdada Sugar Institute (VSI) at Manjari Budruk near Pune.He said the value of now discarded Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000, notes stands at Rs. 14 lakh crore, at the moment. “So one can imagine the magnitude of black money operations used to fund nefarious activities like terrorism.”“I’ve never said that there will not be any problems, and have said [that] right from the first day of our move. But with this drive, in one stroke, we shall have resolved a 70-year-old malady. I could not have disseminated information about our move earlier,” Mr. Modi said. Sugar industryThe Prime Minister said the sugar industry could not be viewed in isolation to the global economy.“We are talking about sugar but I say let us also think about bamboo and how research will help our farmers. We have a requirement of pulses. Can we think about pulses in addition to sugar? There is an assured market for pulses,” he said.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and President of the VSI, Sharad Pawar, was also present at the event, along with Maharashtra Governor C. Vidyasagar Rao and Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis.Praising Mr. Pawar, the PM said that irrespective of political upheavals, Mr. Pawar was a man who never left any stone unturned in his strive to uplift the farmers.“Whenever there is any question pertaining to problems faced by farmers, Sharadrao [Mr. Pawar] is unusually active. His knowledge on these issues is matchless,” Mr. Modi said. He has often praised the Maratha strongman in the past, notably during a visit to the Mr. Pawar’s stronghold, Baramati, in February last year. Meanwhile, activists and leaders associated to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) took to the social media to express their discontent.“After Surgical Strike on Black money & promise of action on benami props, PM Modi to attend prog in Pune today with most honest Sharad Pawar,” former AAP leader and activist, Anjali Damania, tweeted. Likewise, in a sarcastic tweet, AAP leader Ashutosh, said: “Modiji will resolve the ‘black money’ problem by sharing dais with Sharad Pawar. Well done!”
