
February 11, 2017 01:39 IST

Govt. committed to removing black money: Sadananda Gowda

 The Union Minister for Statistics and Programme Implementation, D.V. Sadananda Gowda said here on Friday that demonetisation was a step in the right direction to curb corruption, black money and terrorism. He was speaking at the Digi Dhan Mela, organised by the Government of India through the National e-governance Division, to promote digital transactions. The Minister said the government was committed to uprooting the scourge of black money and terrorism and it was already paying rich dividends by way of reduced terror incidents in Kashmir and violence in regions of naxal influence in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. “The Prime Minister is very particular that corruption should be eradicated, black money tackled properly and terrorism uprooted. The government has taken strong measures to fight corruption and in the days ahead, these will bear fruit,” Mr. Gowda said. Arjun Meghwal, Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Office, said India was aspiring to be an economic power but the cash to GDP ration was 12% as against the global average of 4% and this was to be reduced by opting for cashless transactions. The event was inaugurated by Deputy Commissioner D.Randeep. It was organised to promote the concept of cashless transactions and e-wallets, and saw the participation of major public sector banks and technology vendors in a bid to reach out to the public to clear misconceptions about digital transactions, showcase technology and help people shift to e-wallets and electronic transfer of money. Leading banks in the region, including the State Bank of India, SBM, Syndicate Bank, Canara Bank, Corporation Bank, ICICI, and Kaveri Grameena Bank took part. Notwithstanding the objectives of the organisers, there was lack of adequate public participation. Senior bank officials and those from the district administration admitted that paucity of time and inadequate publicity were factors for the muted public response. The authorities were informed of the mela just two days ago. 
