
December 05, 2016 10:55 IST

Both Houses adjourned for the day

With interruptions reigning this winter session of Parliament, both Houses reconvened on Monday, and after repeated requests, a discussion on demonetisation has been listed in today's business in the Lok Sabha.Today's list of businessRajya Sabha- Discussion on demonetisation of currency- The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Bill, 2014- The Taxation Laws (Second Amendment) Bill, 2016- The Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (Prevention and Control) Bill, 2014Lok Sabha- Discussion on demonetisation of currency- The Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Bill, 2016- The Admiralty (Jurisdiction and Settlement of Maritime Claims) Bill, 2016- The Mental Healthcare Bill, 2016Rajya Sabha | 2 p.m.Thaawar Chand Gehlot introduces the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Bill.It shifts to discussion on demonetisation. Anand Sharma of the Congress says, "The situation is  aggravated because of rationing of cash. People are being denied salaries, pensions."Bhupender Yadav of the BJP retorts that if the Congress had taken care of the 2G problem, black money wouldn't be an issue today.Slogan shouting intensifies. House adjourned till tomorrow.Lok Sabha | 2 p.m.Lok Sabha begins with protests against demonetisation. House adjourned till tomorrow.Lok Sabha | 12.30 p.m.Zero Hour continues, even as slogan shouting gets louder.Rajesh Ranjan (Pappu Yadav) raises the issue of the number of Army personnel dying after surgical strikes by the government.Shouts of "Voting!" get even louder.House adjourned till 2 p.m.Lok Sabha | 12.15 p.m."Please take the issue seriously," Mulayam Singh Yadav says. "Two women died as they were denied cash. The government announced it at 8 p.m. stealthily. Farmers and businessmen are getting affected. The supply chain is disrupted. Farmers have not received seeds and fertilizers for sowing.""I am grateful to the Opposition that none of them has raised doubts about the government's sincerity," says Home Minister Rajnath Singh. "We are ready for debate. The Prime Minister decided to implement demonetisation in the national interest."Opposition begins slogan shouting as Mr. Singh suggests debate without voting. Mr. Singh says, "The Opposition is divided on under which rule the debate should be conducted. We want debate and if there are any issues with the implementation, any lacuna, we will address it."Mr. Kharge says,"No wrong message should go in public that we do not any debate. Are those who speaking against it are traitors? In 50 days, there is going to be a loss of Rs. 1.48 lakh crore. Lakhs of jobs would be lost. Please initiate debate under rule 184.""Everyone is prepared for the debate," says Speaker."Today, debate is listed under rule 193. But, I'm willing to let debate happen. You don't argue about the rule. You can do it keeping rules aside."A long wail erupts as Opposition shouts slogans. "Voting! Voting!" they shout. Zero Hour begins.Lok Sabha | 12 noonLok Sabha resumes. House congratulates Indian women's cricket team for their victory in Asia Cup.Speaker disallows all notices of Adjournment Motion. Opposition members raise their concerns.Mallikarjun Kharge says, "We have requested several times that if the discussion can not be held under rule 56, please allow discussion under rule 184, as people are suffering. 4 lakh people have lost jobs, GDP growth has declined. It is an important issue. Why is the government running away from debate. The government has brute majority in the House.""I request you (Speaker) to please allow the debate. Why are they running away from voting?" asks Mr. Kharge."Who is responsible?" asks TMC Member Sudip Bandhopadhyay. "It is the government's responsibility for smooth functioning of the House, If the discussion is allowed under Rule 184, I will withdraw my application for debate under rule 56.""We are ready for debate under rule 184," says RJD Member Jayprakash Narayan Yadav. "105 people have died, farmers are not getting fertilizers, people are not getting their salaries.""Only implementation is the issue," says TRS Member Jithender Reddy. "We want to discuss on how to alleviate people's suffering. We gave requested that debate must be held under any rule. People are targeting bankers in Hyderabad. We request that we be allowed to give suggestions for proper implementation."Rajya Sabha | 12 noonChairman Hamid Ansari takes the Chair. Question Hour begins. Opposition Members interrupt."Please resume your discussion if you feel so," says the Chair.Slogan shouting resumes.House is adjourned till 2 p.m.Lok Sabha | 11.15 a.m.Opposition sticks to its demand for voting on demonetisation issue. In the list of business, it is under Rule 193 which is discussion without voting.Union Minister Prakash Javadekar asks, "Are they (Opposition) shouting 'Modi! Modi!'?"The Opposition is shouting, "Voting! Voting!"House is adjourned till noon.Rajya Sabha | 11.15 a.m.Members continue to shout slogans, even as Chair tries to calm them down.Union Minister Venkaiah Naidu asks the House to take up the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Bill.House is adjourned till noon.Lok Sabha | 11 a.m.Proceedings begin. Union Minister Ananth Kumar requests for debate on demonetisation. Speaker says, "If you're willing to debate keeping rules aside, I'm ready too."Question Hour begins. Opposition Members start shouting slogans.A Member raises a question on oil pipelines.Rajya Sabha | 11 a.m.Chairman begins day's proceedings with two obituary references — Bekal Utsahi, former Uttar Pradesh MP, and Bhai Mahavir, former Governor of Madhya Pradesh.Deputy Chairman takes the Chair. Papers are laid on the table.LoP Ghulam Nabi Azad states that ATM inside Parliament doesn't have cash. Interruptions abound, as Chair asks the House to begin the discussion.Members storm the well shouting slogans against demonetisation.Sitaram Yechury of the CPI(M) tells the Chair that if the government replies, the protesting Members will go back to their seats."Slogan shouting is not the solution. You will only get headlines in the newspaper," says the Chair. "I will not adjourn. You don't want a reply, that's why you're shouting."
