
January 10, 2017 01:26 IST

Congress wants curbs on ATM withdrawals removed

 Congress leaders and cadres on Monday took out a rally from Indira Bhavan to the Gandhi statue on Trunk Road demanding that the NDA government come out with a White Paper on the impact and purpose of demonetisation.The members of the Mahila Congress, displaying empty plates, participated in the dharna to express their disapproval of the government’s action with regard to the currency notes issue.District Congress Committee president Panabaka Krishnaiah, State Congress vice-president Chevuri Devakumar Reddy, Mahila Congress city president Sk. Ameena and others were present.Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Krishnaiah demanded that the Centre realise its mistake and immediately withdraw the restrictions imposed on the people relating to the withdrawal of cash from the ATMs. He also stressed the need for waiver of service charges on cashless transactions.Women activists sell vegetablesKurnool Special Correspondent adds:Mahila Congress members sold vegetables in front of the Kurnool Collectorate on Monday to symbolically portray the woes of petty traders in the wake of demonetisation.Kurnool Mahila Congress district president Patnam Rajeswari and vice-president Palem Sujatha, who led the protest, asserted that they would continue the agitation for dethroning Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu. The Modi government could not unearth black money by demonetising high value notes, but forced the poor, farmers and women to stand in long queues outside banks to withdraw a limited sum every day, they alleged.They demanded that Mr. Chandrababu Naidu issue a White Paper on the employment generated by his government. Loan waiver for farmers and women was done partially and with restrictions, they said.Mahila Congress leaders Sugunamma, S. Saramma, Suryakanthamma, Heerabai, K. Lakshmi Devi, Haseena, N. Lakshmi Devi and others took part in the protest.Protest at SrikakulamSrikakulam Staff Reporter adds: Senior Congress leaders, including Killi Kruparani and Peerukatla Viswa Prasad, staged a dharna at the SBI main branch here to draw the attention of the people over the 'lapses' and cascading affects on the society due to the demonetisation policy. Party leaders Chowdary Satish and others alleged that many people lost jobs and business with the so-called fight against black money. “It has ultimately turned into a fight against the common people," they added.
