
August 31, 2017 22:20 IST

Demonetisation gave more pain than gain, says CM 
Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Thursday demanded to know if any of the grandiose objectives which the Centre had touted for launching demonetisation of two common currencies had been achieved.Mr. Narayanasamy told presspersons here that while the Centre had rolled out demonetisation of ₹1,000 and ₹500 notes in November last year with the stated goals of squeezing out black money from the system, eliminating terror funds and tackling the issue of counterfeit currency, none of those lofty goals seemed to have been achieved going by the annual report of the Reserve Bank of India.On the contrary, demonetisation had caused heavy losses, put millions of citizens through untold misery, even resulting in the deaths of over 100 persons while waiting for hours in queues, and left the economy in tatters, Mr. Narayanasamy said.He recalled that while many people accepted the demonetisation logic of the Union government in good faith, virtually every Opposition political party had held protests as demonetisation began to heap misery on the common man.‘Tall claims’Citing the RBI report for 2016-17, “which gave the lie to the tall claims of the Union government,” Mr. Narayanasamy said 99% of the junked notes had been replaced. The net value of the currency stocks that did not return was to the tune of ₹16,000 crore, which was marginal in relation to the direct and indirect costs of demonetisation. In fact, for printing new ₹2,000 and ₹500 notes alone, the RBI had spent ₹21,000 crore, not to mention the hits taken by the GDP growth rate and the informal economy. Data showed that the growth rate had fallen by about 1.4% following demonetisation, he said.He sought to know if in the face of the RBI report, the Centre would step up and own responsibility for the demonetisation disaster.Plans for Karaikal The Chief Minister said 20 industrial units had expressed keenness to set up shop in Karaikal. “The industries have sought parcels of land to set up units.”Responding to AIADMK MLA A. Anbalagan’s accusation of corruption in dredging operations at the port, Mr. Narayanasamy dismissed them as “baseless charges”.
