
March 22, 2017 22:23 IST

‘Government considering introduction of ₹200 notes’

The Government of India is considering the introduction of 200 rupee notes in the near future as part of the ongoing demonetisation process, according to Anil Bokil of the Pune-based Arthakranthi Pratisthan, the think tank behind the demonetisation of the ₹500 and ₹1000 notes.Delivering a talk on ‘Demonetisation and Current Economic Issues’ at the three-day VANICOM, the all-India intercollegiate meet organised by the Department of Commerce, School of Management, Pondicherry University, Mr. Bokil said that the introduction of ₹2,000 notes was just an interim measure and would soon see its end. In the course of his address, Mr. Bokil dealt at large on the blight of black money and explained the think tank’s 20 long years of crusade against it. He also unveiled the road map to prosperity of the nation wherein he suggested for “zero” tax except on imports. Mr. Bokil staunchly advocated migration to a cashless economy centred around the banking system, which he said, would help to check the intrusion of black money into the economy. He pointed out that in 2013, he had presented the idea of demonetisation to Narendra Modi, then the Chief Minister of Gujarat and once again in 2016 after he became the Prime Minister. The question as to why one require ₹500, ₹1,000 or ₹2,000 notes when 70 percent of the population still lived on less than $2 per day was a trigger for the advocacy of demonetisation, he said.In fact, after seeing the success of demonetisation of ₹50 and ₹1,000 notes in India, the USA and the EU are considering demonetising $100 notes and €500 notes given the amount of fake currency that is in circulation worldwide, Mr. Bokil added. Pondicherry University Vice-Chancellor (in charge) Anisa Basheer Khan, M. Ramachandran, Registrar (officiating) G. Anjeneyaswamy, Dean School of Management, Malabika Deo, Head, Department of Commerce, P. Natarajan, Professor, Department of Commerce, V. Kavida, the Co-ordinator of VANICOM, Department of Commerce, other faculty and students participated in the event.
