
March 03, 2017 21:53 IST

Services PMI in first expansion since Oct.

The services sector expanded in February recovering from demonetisation-related disruption, according to a private survey.The Nikkei India Services Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) rose to 50.7 in February from 49.4 in January. A reading above 50 denotes an expansion in business activity while one below 50 implies a contraction.“The upturn in services activity follows news from the sister PMI survey showing factory production growing for the second straight month in February,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economist at IHS Markit and author of the report. “With demand conditions strengthening in India, new business inflows rose in both sectors, leading to the first increases in private sector new work and output since October 2016. Nevertheless, growth rates were mild at best and far from their historical averages.”Demonetisation impact“The Nikkei India Services Business Activity Index signalled growth in February as businesses recovered from the demonetisation-related disruptions seen in each of the previous three months,” according to the report.The index fell to 46.7 in November, the month demonetisation was announced, the lowest it had been in almost three years. The index posted a tad higher reading of 46.8 in December but was still firmly depicting a contraction in business activity.“Having contracted for three months in a row, incoming new business also picked up in February,” IHS Markit said. “However, as was the case for output, the pace of growth in new work was marginal overall. Anecdotal evidence from survey participants suggested that, after being hampered by shortages of cash in the economy, demand for services in India improved.”This improvement in business activity and order inflows was mostly driven by the ‘Financial Intermediation’ and ‘Other Services’ category, according to the report with most of the other major heads seeing a decline. However, the report noted that the rate of contraction softened in all cases.‘Less optimistic outlook’“Other survey indicators painted a mixed picture of the service sector’s health,” the report said. “Respondents became less optimistic about the 12-month outlook for activity, with sentiment falling since January as firms were concerned about market competition.”Looking at employment levels in the services sector, IHS Markit said the rate of job losses in February was only fractional. However, staffing levels decreased in the manufacturing sector, in comparison, it noted.‘Sustainability doubtful’“It is still too early to state that expansion rates will climb to their trend levels in the near term,” Ms. De Lima observed. “Companies remain reluctant to take on additional staff and confidence towards the 12-month outlook for output dipped to its second-lowest mark in over one year. These factors indicate that, so far, firms are doubtful about the sustainability of the economic recovery.”
