
November 21, 2016 17:13 IST

Mamata targets Modi, to hit Delhi streets against demonetisation

West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was threatening other parties raising voices against demonetisation. She would hit the streets of Delhi on Tuesday and visit other States also to protest against the Centre’s move which, she termed, was causing immense hardship to people.“The Prime Minister is threatening other parties that are raising their voice on demonetisation. He should be sober. He should behave like a Prime Minister. If necessary, he should convene an all-party meeting on the issue,” Ms. Banerjee said at a press conference at the Secretariat.“There is no ego fight. There should be a plan of action on demonetisation. My humble submission is that let us work together to solve the issue. The people are suffering,” the Trinamool Congress supremo said.She claimed that some political parties were unable to raise their voices because the “Prime Minister is threatening them.” “But I will not be cowed down. I will continue to protest. He can put me in jail. He [Mr. Modi] is even threatening his own party.”At a rally in Agra on Sunday, Mr. Modi said political leaders behind multi-crore chit fund scams were attacking him because they were hit hard by demonetisation, indirectly referring to Ms. Banerjee.Ms. Banerjee alleged that there was a ‘scam’ behind this move. “There must be some hidden agenda. What is the hidden agenda? Let them bring it to the public domain.” “I will be in Lucknow on November 29. I will also go to Bihar and Punjab,” she announced.“This is not a political issue. We are speaking on behalf of commoners. Markets are closed. Small traders are hit. I have no personal interest. I am doing this for the sake of the people of the country,“ she observed.She said that she was not alone in her fight and added that at least three other parties had gone with her to the President.“I will request all [Opposition] political parties to be with the people”, she said.The Centre was allowing demonetised notes in various sectors like railways, aviation, petroleum, etc. but not for State government sectors, she noted.
