
February 01, 2017 21:59 IST

Increase of base import price fails to help arecanut farmers

 Even after the Union government’s announcement that it would enhance the base import price of arecanut from ₹162 to ₹251 a kg, there has not been any recovery in the price of the produce in the domestic market, much to the disappointment of farmers.The Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) issued a notification on January 17 on base import price enhancement. The DGFT announcement in May 2013 to enhance the price from ₹75 to ₹110 per kg and in June 2015 from ₹110 to ₹162 a kg was followed by an escalation in the domestic market price.After the price of arecanut had slumped following the Centre’s announcement on demonetisation, farmers were optimistic that raising the base import price would trigger a recovery. Owing to demonetisation, the price of the hosa rashi variety of arecanut, which was traded at ₹29,250 a quintal on November 8, fell to ₹26,400 on November 10. The cash crunch caused by demonetisation and confusion regarding payments at multiple levels, including the firms engaged in making products from arecanut and the owners of local mandis, were attributed as reasons for the slump in the produce.Cost confusionAiming to ensure a fair price for arecanut, the Centre had announced the launch of the Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) to procure the produce at minimum support price from December 7 to 31. Unfortunately, farmers have not benefited from MIS as no procurement has been made owing to confusion between the Union and State governments on sharing the cost to be incurred for the purchase and on the guidelines to be followed for the process.The price of arecanut that was ₹26,500 per quintal on January 16, a day prior to announcement on enhancement, was traded at the same price at Agriculture Produces Marketing Committees in Shivamogga and Shikaripur on January 28 too. Ramesh Hegde, president of the Shivamogga Zilla Adike Belegarara Sangha, told The Hindu that one lakh quintal of arecanut was imported in 2014-15 and 2015-16 each, resulting in a slump in the demand for native arecanut and its price. As low duty is charged for imports from nations that are signatories for the South Asian Free Trade Area trade agreement and imports from the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation countries enjoy duty exemption, a large quantity of arecanut is being imported under these international agreements, he said. Launching MIS or enhancing the base import price will not impact the arecanut price much. Instead, a blanket ban should be imposed on the import of arecanut by introducing a legislation to ensure lucrative price for the produce in the domestic market, Mr. Hegde said.
