
November 12, 2016 15:13 IST





'Recalibration of ATMs will be completed within 2 weeks'

Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley held a press conference at National Media Centre, New Delhi. The presser comes after a meeting he held with heads of three banks including SBI, the country's largest bank. Banks and ATMs on weekend witnessed more chaos and even longer queues as cash-starved people jostled to exchange and withdraw money, even as cash dispensing machines went dry soon after they were stocked due to heavy rush. Long serpentine queues were witnessed at bank branches for the third straight day across the country. Similarly, people were seen impatiently waiting outside ATMs to withdraw money.As it happened:3.50 p.m.In some States, banks will be open on Mondays. The Government advises people to deposit in their accounts and withdraw. There are some recommendations pending with the government on concessions to encourage cashless transactions.He says the RBI is exploring if more smaller currencies need to be circulated to meet the requirement.3.46 p.m.The Government to ask secretary, banking affairs, for instructions to banks on helping senior citizens in smooth exchange of notes. Cheques are a safer mode of payment.The Government has definite information on terror funding and procurement of weapons.3.43 p.m.Our experience in the last two and half days is that any exception would lead to misuse. So concessions to any section in currency  exchange. More security features in new notes, would be difficult to counterfeit them.It will take 2-3 weeks times to re-calibrate 2 lakh ATMs for dispense new Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 5,00 notes.3.38 p.m.Big regret that people are getting inconvenienced, but currency replacement of this magnitude will cause problems. There are long but orderly queues. There are reports that money has been deposited in Jan dhan accounts, will check.Today our energy is concentrated on smooth and quick replacement of money. Enforcement Directorate and other departments concerned keeping close watch on any illegal activities. 3.40 p.m. Government appeals that those into businesses start using digital payment gateways, cards and banking system. Life will become simpler, in new financial system that is only viable option.3.32 p.m. We are keeping a close watch on reports of bullion being used to convert cash. Currency chest has sufficient cash, which is being transported to banks and post offices.3.26 p.m.He hits out at irresponsible political reactions, says, some people have problems from the efforts to cleanse the system. Some are asking for one more week.Some are alleging that bank deposits increased from July to September, alluding that the information on currency exchange was leaked. However, as per RBI records In last one year, there was spike in deposits in one month only, in September. It was due to disbursal of Pay Commission arrears.3.23 p.m.The Currency replacement exercise of such magnitude takes time. There are challenges in execution: people are turning up in large numbers, they will keep coming in next few days, the government requests that the deposit time is till December 30.                       Technology limitations are there, since secrecy was important. About 2 lakh ATM machines could not be calibrated for dispensing new notes.That is why mostly Rs.100 notes being dispensed from ATMS right now, recalibration will take some time3.21 p.m. Rs. 47,868 crore deposited in SBI and the total deposits is estimated to be five times more. SBI has exchanged notes of 58 lakh people. 22 lakh people operated ATMs and 33 lakh have withdrawn from them. 3.17 p.m.When govt decided to replace 500 and 1000 notes, there were expectations that in couple of days, people would queue up to replace significant part of 86 per cent. It is a massive operation.               SBI, which handles 20-25 per cent of total banking, has  till 12-15 today conducted 2.28 lakh transactions. Five transactions involved in banks:, cash deposit, withdrawal from cash, cash to cash exchange, ATM cah withdrawal and cah deposit machines being used. This apart from post offices.3.16 p.m.Government thanks primarily two sections. There is huge rush for currency replacement. But, people are cooperating despite problems. Bank employees also working day and night to execute the work properly3.15 p.m. Mr. Jaitley hails banking personnel for their tireless work. "Government thanks primarily two sections. There is huge rush for currency replacement. But, people are cooperating despite problems. Bank employees also working day and night to execute the work properly." 3.13 p.m.Bank ATMs on weekend witnessed more chaos and even longer queues as cash-starved people jostled to exchange and withdraw money, even as cash dispensing machines went dry soon after they were stocked due to heavy rush.Long serpentine queues were witnessed at bank branches for the third straight day across the country. Similarly, people were seen impatiently waiting outside ATMs to withdraw money.People including elderly and women in large numbers were queueing up to get the valid currency notes needed to meet their daily expenses.Many ATMs, which reopened four days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced demonetisation of two higher value currency notes, ran out of cash in few hours, leaving people frustrated.To add to the misery still half of the ATMs are non—functional, making people agitated about the lack of infrastructure preparedness for the note exchange programme.There are about 2 lakh ATMs across the country.
