
March 23, 2017 17:48 IST

Talking De-Mon

Demonetisation and Black Money by C. Rammanohar Reddy is a “rich, engaging, empowering for and accessible to” anyone who has questions of Demonetisation 2016. Reddy shares that the 272-page book has been written for “the curious mind” – from policymakers to scholars to citizens. “For a month or two after demonetisation happened, there was a huge flowering of analysis and opinion in the media. That was very enriching; I also found that there were gaps and missing connections. So I decided to look at it in its entirety and try to explain what it all means. It doesn’t thrust a particular view at you but there is some opinion in there too. I want the reader to decide for themselves.” The book features insight from imminent figures in Indian finance including a foreword by Mr. Yaga Venugopal Reddy, former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India, who was integral in Reddy getting introduced to interviewees and research material. But there were some challenges faced, “The challege was that there was not a lot of information about this. Black money, by nature, is something about which there is not a lot of information— it is very hidden from the law and underground. Another challenge is that I needed it to be done quickly. And the final challenge was to write it in a simple manner because the economist tendency is to fall back into jargon.”Demonetisation and Black Money is one of the first, if not the first, books on the currency implosion, and Reddy explains, “This isn’t the first time Indian currency has been remonetised; the first happening in 1946. This, however, was big in that it removed 86% of the Indian currency in one shot. It was a huge shock and it affected everybody. To catch one per cent of the population, the government went and carpet-bombed one hundred per cent.”Nilanjana Majumdar, Managing Editor of Social Sciences Higher Academics Division at Orient BlackSwan Publishers, praises Reddy, “His grasp over the subject, his clarity of thought, his ability to treat people with respect and value their points of view, make him so.”Currency is a pivotal subject matter for everyone, especially young people. The IIM alumnus and former journalist states, “There is black money around us. We are forced to pay illegal fees on small government services. There are people with black money around us who are appropriating resources. So that is of concern to us— whether you have a credit card or you’re familiar with internet payment services. But you’re living here and you’re seeing this around you, so you have to deal with it and you are dealing with it every day. So the question is if demonetisation was the right way to go about dealing with black money or if there are other ways to have gone about it.” Reddy, in partnership with Orient BlackSwan, will be discussing Demonetisation and Black Money at Vidyaranya High School in Saifabad this evening at 6:15pm. Read an excerpt of the book here.
