
November 16, 2016 23:46 IST

Demonetisation dominates Chhattisgarh Assembly

 The Narendra Modi government’s decision to scrap Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 currency notes dominated the Chhattisgarh Legislative Assembly for the second consecutive day on Wednesday.The House had witnessed uproar several times on Tuesday over the issue and saw five adjournments.The Chhattisgarh Chief Minister, Raman Singh, had submitted a proposal to “congratulate” the central government “on the historic decision” before the House, however, the main opposition party, the Congress, demanded that it be allowed to take part in the discussion.The BJP MLAs backed the demonetisation move, whereas the Congress leaders called it an “attempt by the central government to hide its inability to bring back black money stashed abroad.”“People all over the country are panicked due to this move. A farmer from Raigarh district went to bank thrice but he could not get money which he desperately needed for his children. In the end, he killed himself. We are against black money but why is the government troubling common people who have nothing to do with the black money? The way you have taken up this process has only troubled the common man. Take back this decision and bring it only when you are completely prepared,” Chhattisgarh Congress president, Bhupesh Baghel, said.Many BJP leaders also conceded that common people were facing temporary inconvenience due to demonetisation.The House also witnessed heated verbal exchanges between the opposition and the treasury benches.“Marriages are being canceled for the scarcity of cash. The chief minister has the finance portfolio here, why did he not think of inconvenience to the people by this move? The situation is getting worse in rural areas of the State,” senior Congress MLA, Satyanarayn Sharma, said.Accepting that inconvenience would be caused for a few days, BJP MLA Shrichan Sundarani, claimed that the people of the country have made up their mind to “strengthen the economy.”Parliamentary affair minister, Ajay Chandrakar, furiously defended the demonetisation and recounted the measures taken by the government to avoid hardship to the common public.However, the opposition was not satisfied and the leader of opposition T.S. Singh Deo refused to support the government in “this gamble.”CM Raman Singh equated the demonetisation decision to Indira Gandhi’s support to the formation of Bangladesh.He claimed that “96 per cent” of the country were sleeping peacefully and only “four percent” with black money were sleepless because of the “bold and daring decision of the PM.”“If our jawans can stand on the border for days to protect us why can’t we stand in line for four hours to strengthen our economy? This decision has destroyed the terror and Maoist funding,” he said, adding that his government has taken all necessary precautions to help the people of the State.However, Mr. Singh’s speech was repeatedly disrupted by Congress MLAs who demanded the division of vote on the “proposal of congratulation” to the Central government.The vote division went in favour of the government by 16 votes.
