
December 15, 2016 11:05 IST

Penultimate day of winter session too hit by disruptions

With the winter session of Parliament set to end on Friday, almost no business has been conducted in both Houses of Parliament. Every day has passed with repeated disruptions and adjournament of both the Houses over the demonetisation issue.On Wednesday, the Rajya Sabha passed the Rights to Persons with Disabilities Bill, one of only two Bills passed in this session. The other business that has been conducted was the passing of the amendments to the Income Tax Bill.Here are the updates of Thursday:Rajya Sabha | 2 p.m.Deputy Chairman P.J. Kurien takes the Chair. Shouting of logans begins.Mr. Kurien says, "Since both sides are disrupting, I'm to understand that both sides do not want discussion [on demonetisation]."Naresh Agrawal of the SP says, "We have given notice to speak on farmers' plight."Shouting of slogans continues. Members storm the well of the House.The House is adjourned till tomorrow.Rajya Sabha | 12.30 p.m.House reconvenes and shouting of slogans begins almost immediately.The House is adjourned till 2 p.m.Lok Sabha | 12.15 p.m.A Minister quotes a television report on payoffs in the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper deal case. "The Congress is shying away from discussion."The Congress and its allies shout slogans against the government.The House is adjourned till tomorrow.Rajya Sabha | 12 noonThe House reconvenes. Interruptions begin. The House is adjourned for 30 minutes.Lok Sabha |12 noonProceedings begin. Speaker disallows all Notice of Adjournment Motions amidst protests by the members who had moved the notice.Papers are laid on the table. The Payment of Wages Bill is introduced.Opposition immediately begins shouting slogans.Trinamool Congress Member Sudeep Bandyopadhyay says debate on demonetisation can take place under any rule."We have been trying since December 16 to hold discussion," says Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress. "When we asked for debate under Rule 56, it was allowed. We also sought it under Rule 184, it was also not allowed. We want to discuss under any rule," he says."People are suffering, and the PM is running away from debate. We are ready for discussion," says Mr. Kharge.A TRS member says that all parties have accepted that demonetisation is a good move, but the implementation has been lacking.This draws shouts from some other Opposition members. "I have given notice for debate, but they [protesting members] are not allowing me to dpeak. They should also listen to what I have to say in the issue. My senior Bhartruhari Mahtab [BJD] had also sought debate under Rule 193 [without voting], but we are not being allowed."Parliamentary Affairs Minister Ananth Kumar says, "We have been ready for debate since day one, but certain Opposition members are not allowing it. When the country is fighting corruption and black money, the Congress is busy covering black money."Lok Sabha | 11 a.m.House proceedings begin. Speaker Sumitra Mahajan begins question hour, inviting strong Opposition by Congress members. The Speaker warns some protesting Opposition members."We want discussion," demand Opposition members. The Speaker asks both the Treasury benches and the protesting members to behave; adjourns the House till noon.Rajya Sabha | 11 a.m.House reconvenes. Mr. Kurien is in the Chair. Notice from the Lok Sabha on postponement on the presentation of the standing committee report on Land Acquisition Bill is read out.Papers are laid on the table.Treasury benches protest and display placards in the House. The Speaker asks them to refrain from doing so."It is convention that the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the House should be allowed to speak without interruptions," says Mr. Kurien.Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad says that the ruling party is disrupting the House. "This is the first time since Independence this is happening," says Mr. Azad.Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi says another "Congress skeleton has toppled out of the well of corruption. We want to discuss this.""You give notice, then," says Mr. Kurien. "I have given notice," says Mr. Azad. "I need to be heard."Shouting of slogans by BJP memmers intensifies."This is an anti-farmer government," says Mr. Azad. "I gave notice asking the government to waive loans to farmers. Farmers are dying."Sitaram Yechury of the CPI(M) says that it is unprecedented that the ruling party disrupts the House.The House is adjourned till noon.Today's list of businessRajya Sabha- Discussion on demonetisation of currency.- The Appropriation (No. 4) Bill, 2016.- The Appropriation (No. 5) Bill, 2016.- The Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (Prevention and Control) Bill, 2014.- The Employee's Compensation (Amendment) Bill, 2016.- The Enemy Property (Amendment and Validation) Bill, 2016- The Whistle Blowers Protection (Amendment) Bill, 2015.Lok Sabha- Secretary General to report a message from Rajya Sabha regarding the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Bill, 2016.- The Payment of Wages (Amendment) Bill, 2016.
