
January 08, 2017 00:24 IST

Demonetisation has hit growth: CM 
 Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Saturday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for causing hardship to all sections of people with the demonetisation move and demanded immediate withdrawal of the drive to enforce digital transactions. Addressing a demonstration against the demonetisation organised by the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) at Brindavan here, Mr. Narayanasamy said he had told the Prime Minister that Puducherry could not taken for granted in implementing digital transactions. He said that Puducherry was not like the other Union Territories and had its own Legislative Assembly and an elected Government similar to New Delhi. Hence, the Centre should have consulted the territorial government before announcing the decision. Listing the sufferings of the people, Mr. Narayanasamy said that Mr. Modi announced demonetisation to cover up his failure to keep his promises to the voters. The ban on higher denomination notes had not yielded any result. The country and the people were in distress even 55 days after the ban. The Reserve Bank of India could print only notes to the value of Rs. 30 crore a month. The replacement notes required was to the extent of Rs. 14 lakh crore. This problem would not be resolved in a year. Out of 30,000 traders in the Union Territory, only 300 had been using point of sale machines, he said.Puducherry’s revenue had come down steeply because of the cash crisis. When the Congress Government assumed office in June last, there were positive signs in business, tourism, and other sectors. But the demonetisation move had caused havoc and the Union Territory’s revenue had dipped by over 30 per cent in sales tax and excise.“We will not allow this to continue. The Government has been able to increase its revenue from Rs. 120 crore to Rs. 150 crore. But all development activities have been nullified by the demonetisation exercise,” he said.Jyoti Mirdha, former MP from Rajasthan, participated.The Congress protests across the Union Territory were led by the Ministers and respective MLAs.
