
January 07, 2017 00:37 IST

Desperate realty firm offers two years’ EMI free 
 Probably, in a first of its kind move, a Vijayawada-based firm has come forward to bear the cost of two years of EMI for its customers. Industry players attribute this desperate move to the dark side of demonetisation exercise in the country.“Whatever may be the reason, we are encouraging prospective clients to take this opportunity. We’ve already spoken to two major banks to facilitate this offer. Our project is expected to be completed in the first half of 2019. Customers can pay ten per cent of the total cost of the flat and avail this offer and they can even claim tax exemption on these EMIs,” said the company representative under condition of anonymity. The average cost of their flats is about Rs.70 lakh, according to him.The realty firm is one of the major partners in the property show organised by the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) from January 6 to 8 in Vijayawada. The properties in the region range from over Rs.3 crore to Rs.25 lakh per unit. Industry sources say that ongoing projects are desperate to sell as there is all-pervasive confusion over price dynamics. The projects with high land cost are likely to take a major hit, according to Greater Vijayawada Builders’ Association founder Gadde Rajaling. At present, there are no takers at all for plots and landed properties in the market. “Post demonetisation, the land prices have totally crashed as the cash component in such deals is over 70 per cent. For flats and other residential properties, it’s confusion among the public which is playing spoilsport. People are expecting a major fall and this trend is driving some realty firms take extreme steps,” he said. However, he said that the General Union Budget will give more clarity on the state of affairs and the industry is all set to look up.As per the industry sources, the property prices are likely to come down by over 30 per cent in the near term owing to predominantly negative public sentiment. As of now, almost all the real estate firms have lined up attractive offers which include reduction in price per square feet and price protection till possession. Added to the public trend, the industry too is following a wait-and-watch approach. For instance, the two major real estate umbrella bodies have cancelled the scheduled meets recently. The Andhra Pradesh Real Estate Developers’ Agency (APREDA) has cancelled it’s proposed property show in Vijayawada due to lack of support from sponsors. A similar meet was cancelled by CREDAI in Visakhapatnam for the same reason. CRDA clears 14 applicationsThe Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority (AP-CRDA) has, in its open forum held on Friday, cleared 14 out of 18 applications filed for building and layout permissions. Additional information was sought with regard to three applications and one was rejected.CRDA Director (development control) V. Ramudu conducted the meeting. 
