
November 14, 2016 15:49 IST

‘Mamata’s call to Yechury in country’s interest’ 
 West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s invite to CPI(M) for an opposition unity against what she termed ‘financial emergency’ following demonetisation of high value currencies was in greater interest of the country and its people, Trinamool Congress vice-president Mukul Roy said on Monday. “Our policy and fight against the communist forces will never change. We have lost 55,000 supporters at hand of CPI(M) cadres in West Bengal”, he stated. Mr. Roy said he felt need to speak on the issue as some ‘vested quarters’ and BJP were trying to confuse people ahead of by elections in two vacant assembly constituencies in Tripura. Ms. Banerjee called up CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Sunday.However, the CPI(M) leadership is “sceptical” about Ms. Banerjee’s proposal, with top leaders in the State rejecting the Chief Minister’s proposal.Claiming that Ms. Banerjee was the only leader in the country to take lead in fight against menace of communalism and support the ordinary masses, Mr. Roy said she cannot remain silent spectator after Narendra Modi government imposed an undeclared financial emergency in the country to create immense sufferings for people. “Thus she gave a clarion call to unite all opposition parties to fight anti people policies of the NDA government”, he asserted while speaking to newsmen.Mr. Roy and West Bengal Minister Rezzak Molla and some other leaders from the State are currently camping in Tripura to campaign for party nominees in Barjala and assembly constituencies. Some more party leaders are slated to arrive for November 19 by elections. ‘CPI (M) trying to rig polls’Mr. Roy complained that CPI(M) cadres have started ‘terror tactics’ to rig by elections. He smacked off a nexus between CPI(M) and the election commission as the latter was reluctant to take cognizance on complaints.“Commission has not even sent police observer in the state. Rules are grossly violated”, he alleged. He sounded optimistic over party’s win in the by elections in Tripura.
