
August 16, 2017 21:31 IST

How did Modi get figures on demonetisation, asks Congress

 The Congress on Wednesday questioned the figures cited by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Independence Day speech on the money that came in post-demonetisation.Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad expressed surprise that Mr. Modi was able to quote the cash amount even though the Reserve Bank of India had said it had not yet finished counting the money.“The PM said ₹3 lakh crore came back to the banking system post-demonetisation. The RBI has not finished counting yet, how did the PM get this figure?” he asked.Black moneyOn Tuesday, Mr. Modi had addressed the nation, praising the note ban decision taken by his government to crack down on black money and corruption. He had said, “According to research conducted by outside experts, about ₹3 lakh crore that had never come into the banking system before, has been brought into the system after demonetisation.” Yet, oddly, Mr Azad said, the RBI is yet to announce how much money flowed into the banks post-demonetisation announced on November 9, 2016 as it is still in the process of counting.Lashing out at the Prime Minister on his message of uniting India, Mr. Azad said that he would be better served if he told the RSS not to break India: India is already united, he stressed.“PM keh rahe hain Bharat jodo, par Bharat pehle se hi juda hua hai, PM ko sangh ke logon se kehna chahiye ke Bharat mat todo. [The PM is saying that India needs to unite, when it is already united, PM should tell the people from Sangh that do not break India],” he said.Referring to the deaths of more than 60 children at Baba Raghav Das Medical College hospital in Gorakhpur, located in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Azad expressed surprise that the Prime Minister had, in his speech, included it as a natural calamity whereas it was a man-made calamity.Stressing that the truth would never come out if the investigations take place under Prime Minister Modi’s supervision, he demanded that a sitting judge of the Supreme Court should be appointed to head the inquiry.CM’s addressMr. Azad also said that Tripura Chief Minister Manik Sarkar’s Independence Day address was not broadcast on Doordarshan and All India Radio as his speech did not include the achievements of the Modi government, adding that an undeclared emergency had been imposed on radio, television and newspapers.
