
November 09, 2017 01:21 IST

Will demonetisation resonate in 2018 election campaign in Karnataka?

 A year on, demonetisation is still a hotly contested issue in political circles, as evident by the celebrations and protests to mark its first anniversary in election-bound Karnataka. But will political parties sustain the tempo of the movement and will demonetisation play a role in the Assembly elections that are likely in April–May 2018?Election strategists of political parties and political analysts say that while demonetisation alone may not be the decisive factor, it would play a role along with GST and the issue of larger economic slowdown. This especially if Narendra Modi–Amit Shah lead a “Delhi-centric campaign” for the BJP in the State, they argue. Political scientist Sandeep Shastri said initial trends in Karnataka indicate that the BJP is all set to go for a narrative centred around Mr. Modi and the achievements of the Union government for the 2018 campaign, while the Congress is working on a regional campaign. “The Congress in the State will definitely use demonetisation and shoddy implementation of GST to halt the Modi campaign. The BJP has till date seen success in its communication that it [demonetisation] was an anti-corruption move. It depends on which party will be able to communicate more effectively,” he said, and added that there was a definite disquiet over demonetisation and GST on the ground, which has taken up much space in Gujarat campaign.However, economist Narendar Pani said that while demonetisation would be far into the past by the time of the elections, GST and unemployment, building into a larger economic slowdown narrative attributed to the Centre, would play a role in the elections. “Though Karnataka is not a trader society like Gujarat, GST, if no amendments are made, is likely to lead to a strong opinion from the people. Demonetisation will also add to it. Generally, economic slowdown is attributed to the Union government,” he said.The BJP said that since one of their main planks of the campaign was anti-corruption, demonetisation would be part of the campaign. S. Suresh Kumar, chairman of the manifesto committee for the 2018 elections, said the “initial hiccups” of demonetisation were “a thing of the past” and demonetisation would have a positive impact as an election issue. “The Congress, like it has done in Gujarat and even in some local body elections in Maharashtra, will make demonetisation a poll issue, as they are bereft of other issues. But they will be defeated as people are convinced of the intent of the move because of the credibility of Narendra Modi,” he said. The former Chief Minister M. Veerappa Moily, chairman of the manifesto committee of the Congress for the 2018 Assembly elections, said while the Congress was committed to a positive campaign, it would be forced to expose the “economic mishandling” by the Union government, including demonetisation. “If Narendra Modi and Amit Shah lead the campaign in the State, it will help us as there is a huge anti-incumbency factor that has set in against the Prime Minister, starting with demonetisation,” he said.
