
December 25, 2016 11:00 IST

Fight against corruption like military forces: Modi 
11.30 a.m.My dear country men, let 2017 touch new heights of growth, May the poorest of the poor receive what they deserve. My best wishes to you all. Thank you.11.29 a.m.We are proud of players like Karun Nair, K.L. Rahul, Virat Kohli, R. Ashwin for their feats.I'd also like to congratulate junior hockey team who won the World Cup after a span of 15 years.Last month, the women's hockey team also won the Asian Trophy and now the under-18 team have won a bronze medal in Asia cup. Congratulations to all the players.11.28 a.m.People with disabilitiesI believe that people with disabilities would get their honour and respect that they deserve. They have made us proud when they won 4 medals in Paralympics. The Divyang Jan are an invaluable force.They will have more employment opportunities and special provisions in education will be provided as well.The disabled community were provided with Rs.352 crore worth of necessities.A number of new categories have been included for the first time like Thalassemia, Parkinson's, Dwarfism and more.11.27 a.m.ParliamentDear countrymen, the people of the country were upset with the Parliament session. There was all round fury over what happened at the Winter session. But I'd like to inform you that despite the logjam, I am happy that we have passed the Disabilities Bill. This was one of the key agenda of the govt.For this I am grateful to all members of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha.11.25 a.m.On economy, farmingWith regards to farming, we have broken last year's record in sowing.This country has given many new milestones on the global economic stage as well. India' global economic ranking has improved. India's World Bank ranking has also gone up. We are working at a fast pace to get India's business practices to go high. We have gone up in World Bank's Performance Index of 2016 as well.11.24 a.m.CorruptionThere is no question of stopping or getting tired. There is no question of going back. I'd like to inform you all that 'Benami Property' Act of 1998 was kept in cold storage. We have reshaped it and the law will take its course. We are doing everything in the interest of the society.11.23 a.m.I am grateful to the people of the country for one more thing. Many corrupt people are caught in I-T raids. The secret is that, the information is given by the public.Out govt. has an e-mail id for information on such corrupt activities. The battle will become more easier if you help us.11.22 a.m.Many keep finding faults with the government. Being a sensitive government, no matter how many changes have to be made, we have to do so to fight against those who are corrupt.Some of them are trying their best to defeat us.11.21 a.m.We are all agents of change. I feel the same amount of sorrow that all the citizens are facing right now and I'd like to appreciate all of those who give us a hand in this fight against black money.Many people have stood for the truth and my beloved citizens have creatively fought against many accusations. I salute all those who participate in this fight.11.18 a.m.Many citizens have complained about many scams and other corrupt members of the society. But since this is a fight against corruption, we fight just like military forces.11.14 a.m.Farmers will benefit a lot from digital transactions as well. Our government has decided to give compensations of all sorts to the first few of those who go digital.11.10 a.m.Cashless economyI'm sure youngsters near you would know how to do transactions from their mobiles. I request you all to seek help from those young men. Digital transactions are as easy as sending a message on Whatsapp.11.08 a.m.Businessmen who bring in cashless transactions, will receive more benefits in the Digi Dhan Vyapar Yojana.20 crore poor families in India who have Jan Dhan accounts have 30 crore RuPay cards.11.05 a.m.Indian govt has led ways to improve cashless transactions. 15,000 people will be given gifts as part of the Lucky Grahak Yojana and this isn't just for today. For the next 100 days, many households will receive a gift of Rs. 1,000. But you be taken into this lucky draw only when you start using mobile banking, e-banking, RuPay card, UPI, USSD and many more such digital transations.Those who buy from Rs. 50 to Rs. 3000, they will benefit from this lucky draw. Even the poorest of the poor could use feature phones to purchase or sell items.Villagers can also use digital transactions and could win this lucky draw.11.03 a.m.Today is Madan Mohan Malviya's birthday as well. I even laid foundation stone for a cancer centre named after him in Varanasi. It is Atal Bihari Vajpayee's birthday too. I salute Atal ji and give him my best wishes. He worked towards the betterment of the nation. I had tweeted this morning on the same.11.01 a.m.Merry Christmas to one and all. Jesus Christ said, "More than our service, the poor need our acceptance" Jesus Jesus not only served the poor, but he praised the service by the poor. Enabling the poor is their real empowerment.
