
November 13, 2017 00:22 IST

Demonetisation: Real estate sector takes a beating in Mysuru district

 Demonetisation may have hit several businesses in the last year. Clearly, real estate figures prominently among the sectors that have taken a beating in Mysuru district.The number of properties, including houses, sites, and land registered in the district came down from 1.1 lakh during 2015-16 to 1.01 lakh during 2016-17, according to data collected from the office of the district registrar, Mysuru.There are a total of 15 sub-registrar offices in the district, including five in Mysuru city, besides the one on the premises of Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA). The slump recorded during the financial year 2016-17 has been attributed to the reduction in the number of property transactions during the last five months of the fiscal — November 2016 to March 2017 — post-demonetisation.The real estate market has remained sluggish in the first seven months of 2017-18 – April 2017 to October 2017. Against the annual target of ₹410 crore that the Department of Stamps and Registrations had set for Mysuru district from stamp and registration fee, barely ₹141.37 had been collected by the department till end of October 2017. If the property transactions do not pick up in the remaining five months of the fiscal, the revenue collected from stamps and registration fee in Mysuru district will record a dip for the second successive year.Though demonetisation has been identified as the main culprit for stagnant real estate market in Mysuru, the data made available from the office of the District Registrar suggest that the slump in property market had begun from the start of the financial year 2016-17. The trend continued for the entire financial year and beyond.Role of black money Real estate players pointed out that black money was driving the property transactions. “Most buyers and sellers disclose the source of funds (white money) only to the extent of guidance value of the property while the remainder of the market value is paid in unaccounted funds (black money),” said a real estate dealer, speaking on condition of anonymity. A large number of sellers do not disclose the entire proceeds they had collected from the buyer to avoid paying of capital tax. Post-demonetisation, the sources of black money dried up, bringing down the number of purchasers.But, despite the number of purchasers coming down, the rates of properties have remained intact. “Rates have not come down as few owners are willing to sell it for less,” said Mahadev, who is engaged in the preparation of documents needed for registration of property.
