
October 09, 2017 22:14 IST

Richard Thaler, 2017 Economics Nobel Prize winner, supported demonetisation

When India announced demonetisation last November, Nobel Prize winner Richard Thaler described it as a “policy I have long supported” but also remarked “damn” when it was brought to his notice that the government was introducing ₹2,000 currency notes.Dr. Thaler, a Professor of Economics and Behavioural Science at the University of Chicago, on October 9 won the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences.Former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan is currently serving as Distinguished Service Professor of Finance, University of Chicago Booth School. Mr. Rajan, whose name was also doing the rounds for the Nobel Prize, recently stated that he was never in favour of demonetisation. In a tweet on November 8, 2016 — along with a link to a news article about demonetisation — Dr. Thaler said, “This is a policy I have long supported. First step toward cashless and good start on reducing corruption.”Soon after responding to comments that ₹2,000 currency notes are to be introduced, Dr. Thaler tweeted, “really? Damn.” 

This is a policy I have long supported. First step toward cashless and good start on reducing corruption. https://t.co/KFBLIJSrLr— Richard H Thaler (@R_Thaler) November 8, 2016



 

really? Damn.— Richard H Thaler (@R_Thaler) November 8, 2016



 These tweets came from the Twitter handle ‘@R_Dr. Thaler’, which is not officially verified but was tagged by the official feed of the Nobel Prize.“BREAKING NEWS The 2017 Prize in Economic Sciences is awarded to Richard H Dr. Thaler @R_Dr. Thaler @UChicago @ChicagoBooth #NobelPrize,” the official twitter feed of the Nobel Prize tweeted on Monday.


Also Read





Economics Nobel goes to Richard H. Thaler 



On November 8, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced demonetisation of old ₹500 and ₹1,000 notes as part of efforts to curb illicit fund flows and corruption.Dr. Thaler is the Charles R Walgreen Distinguished Service Professor of Economics and Behavioural Science and Director of the Centre for Decision Research, Booth School of Business, University of Chicago.The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences today said Dr. Thaler has incorporated psychologically realistic assumptions into analyses of economic decision-making.“By exploring the consequences of limited rationality, social preferences, and lack of self-control, he has shown how these human traits systematically affect individual decisions as well as market outcomes,” it said in a release while announcing him as the winner of the Nobel Prize.
