
April 19, 2017 23:55 IST

The din over demonetisation did not reach her world of silence

With old currency notes in hand, Meenakshi, 40, looks helpless. She had realised only two days ago that the ₹1.39 lakh cash she had saved up and stashed away over the years now holds no value. Through desperate gestures, the woman who can neither hear nor speak tries to communicate that it is all she has.Ms. Meenakshi is one of the six children of Lakshmidevi and Narasimhashetty, and two of her brothers cannot hear and speak as well. She stays with her mother and her younger brother Dinesh. Her father died 11 years ago. Both Ms. Meenakshi and her mother work as domestic helpers, with the 40-year-old, who is illiterate, earning ₹1,500 a month, besides a pension of ₹1,200 meant for the physically-challenged.“She used to keep all her earnings with herself. Except for a couple of hundred rupees for household expenses, she barely spent anything. She has saved up ₹1.39 lakh,” Ms. Meenakshi’s mother told The Hindu. Besides her earnings, she had also stashed away all the cash her relatives and well-wishers had gifted her during festivals and other occasions. She had not spoken about the money even to her close family members.The family rents a small house for ₹1,200 a month. “After the demonetisation, we all asked her if she had any old notes. She refused to tell us anything, fearing that she might lose the money if she gave it to others. She did not understand then that her money would be useless. She understood it only now, after her employer told her,” said Nagaraj, her brothers.Ms. Meenakshi, with no bank account in her name, had saved the money to build a small house for herself and purchase some jewellery, her mother said. “Everybody is telling us that now there is no way left to exchange the cash. I appeal to the government to help my daughter. It is her hard-earned money,” said Ms. Lakshmidevi.The family’s kin have approached senior officials of the district administration to find a way out. However, there has been no positive response so far as the deadline to exchange old notes with the Reserve Bank of India is over. A senior official said he would try to help the poor woman from his own pocket on humanitarian grounds, but was not sure of a way to get the old notes exchanged.
