
November 11, 2017 22:37 IST

Small businesses, agriculture took the hit in Prakasam

After the announcement of denomination, people went through the pain of standing in serpentine queues with the fond hope that their lives would be far better once the benefits of the surgical strike on black money hoarders would pay dividends. Now their hopes are shattered with the economy being in trouble and agriculture and small businesses taking the hit of the DeMo effect.Rural Prakasam facing drought for the third successive year felt the impact more with prices of all farm produce crashing thanks to cash crunch. The small businesses were also equally affected and whatever little recovery witnessed after remonetisation had been neutralised by the Goods and Services Tax rollout, retail traders here complain.“Though the cash has eased, things are not back to normal. We do not know how much more time it will take for our businesses to pick up,” a grocery shop owner K. Narasimha Rao in the busy Bapuji market complex here says keeping his fingers crossed and nurturing hopes that things will settle down once the teething troubles are overcome sooner than later.The DeMO effect is much more than expected. There is fall of about 30 to 50% in sales with the low and middle class people losing purchasing power thanks to the economic slowdown and loss of jobs in different sectors, adds L.Venkateswara Rao, a fancy goods shop owner on the busy Gandhi road. “We don’t know whether it is transitory or a permanent,” he adds with uncertainty writ large on his face. It is high time the government came out with a package to boost consumption especially in the rural areas, where it had plummeted due to successive drought in the last three years. “I used to sell travel bags and laptop bags worth ₹10,000 each day before last November. The sales had plummeted to about ₹5,000,” laments S.Venkateswarlu, who owns a shop in the Nellore bus stand area.Even those who were not used to alternative delivery channels like the ATMs, debit and credit cards swiped their cards at the point of sale machines soon after demonetisation. But they have stopped doing so with traders in many cases passing on the merchant service fee (MSF) imposed by the banks on to the customers. “Primarily ours is a cash economy. Only if the government takes the initiative to waive the MSF, digital transactions will pick up,” feels yet another grocery shop owner P. Srinivasulu showing the POS machine gathering dust with customers preferring mainly cash mode of payment.However, Lead Bank District Manager (LDM) Venkateswara Rao maintains that “digital transactions have gone up 25 to 30% post demonetisation with people who have not used even ATM swiping their debit cards while making purchases”.The economic slowdown is more pronounced in the rural sector with especially farmers unable to realise remunerative price for their produce due to reduced demand. The spike in the prices of vegetables is mostly seasonal due to shortage of output due to vagaries of nature and pest attacks. Farmers in no way have benefited by the increase in prices, feels farmer leader Ch. Ranga Rao.The depressed market condition has put paid to the peasants’ hope of realising decent returns for any crop including cotton, chilli, green gram and minor millets, he says, fearing that more and more farmers will turn landless labourers in the years to come as a result. 
