
December 02, 2017 01:22 IST

Three policemen suspended after old notes go missing from strongroom 
 A “raid” to cover up for some cash missing from the strongroom of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) has put three policemen under the scanner.Home Minister Ramalinga Reddy on Friday said assistant sub-inspector of police, Hombale Gowda, and two constables, Narasimha Murthy and Gangadhar, were suspended in this connection. He said he had asked the Police Commissioner to probe if senior officials were involved. The charade fell apart when a BMTC conductor, who had fallen into hard times, revealed a note-conversion racket he was part of.According to the FIR filed by the High Grounds police earlier this week, the conductor — whose house was to be repossessed for failing to pay a bank loan — approached a real-estate agent, Satyanarayana, for money.He was then directed to a scheme, where he would get a handsome commission for exchanging ₹1 crore worth of demonetized currency  from two people from BTM Layout. On November 25, he collected the money, and met up with another agent, Venkatesh, to exchange them into new notes. As they were driving towards Madhavnagar, around 8 p.m., three people claiming to be policemen from the Seshadripuram station, stopped them and took away the old notes, claiming it to be part of the ongoing raids. The conductor landed at the police station and found out that the three men did not work there. He then filed a complaint with the police, who started investigating. They soon found that the thieves were actually policemen attached to the CCB.The constables then reportedly confessed they had done this to “replace” the cash missing from the CCB strongroom, said the police.Mr. Reddy said around ₹1.5 crore, out of nearly ₹15 crore from previous raids which was in the strongroom, was missing. A few months ago, a Tamil Nadu businessman was raided by the CCB, leading to ₹3 crore recovery. Sources said the policemen, who are now in the dock, exchanged some of the recovered notes illegally. However, when the businessman lodged a complaint with the police, an internal inquiry was launched, and the accused were forced to replace the cash. Sources said the accused could be behind more such thefts.Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Satish Kumar said, “We are probing the misappropriation angle and are verifying the amount of cash in the storeroom.”
