
November 09, 2017 01:21 IST

Congress observes black day against demonetisation in Mangaluru

 Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee on Wednesday observed “black day” as a part of the party’s nation-wide campaign against demonetisation.Leaders, who addressed party workers and the public in front of the DCC office, were critical of the NDA government at the Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Minister for Food and Civil Supplies U.T. Khader demanded a White Paper on demonetisation saying that the country wants to know the impact of the move . While the exercise is a monumental blunder, it has not brought out any intended results, Mr. Khader said.At the same time, the exercise has claimed more than 150 lives with people waiting in front of ATMs and for currency exchange losing their lives. Even fake notes of ₹2,000 currency have surfaced, he said.Government Chief Whip in the Legislative Council Ivan D’Souza, Mangaluru South MLA J.R. Lobo, Mayor Kavitha Sanil, DCC President Harish Kumar, and other senior leaders were present.Meanwhile, district in-charge Minister B. Ramanath Rai led the “black day” protest at Bantwal wearing black shawls and later participated in a padayatra as part of the protest. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Rai said demonetisation on the one hand has increased unemployment and on the other has resulted in escalation of prices of essential commodities. The Central government has become a mute spectator to the woes of the public, he said. Sampaje Poyi Dakshina Kannada DCC and Kodagu DCC organised a joint padayatra from Sullia in Dakshina Kannada to Sampaje in Kodagu district under the name “Sampaje Poyi” (let’s go to Sampaje).Inaugurating the padayatra at Sullia, Karnataka Silk Development Board chairman T.P. Ramesh said people are thrown to streets because of demonetisation. Mr. Modi was unable to bring even a single rupee of the black money said to have been stashed outside the country, he said.The programme saw participation of party workers in large numbers, who shouted anti-NDA and anti-Modi slogans. The padayatra culminated at Sampaje, about 25 km from Sullia, where Mr. Ivan D’Souza addressed a meeting.
