
January 05, 2017 23:41 IST

Demonetisation and glut hammer prices of pulses

 Households are benefiting from a sudden drop in the price of toor after a year marked by a steep rise. In the last three weeks alone, the price has gone down from ₹180 a kg (in November 2016) to less than ₹100 in the wholesale market.It’s not just the price of toor, the prices of other pulses too have seen a dramatic fall. From a high of ₹200 in November, a kg of urad dal is now selling at ₹130. Moong dal prices have come down marginally.This downward trend comes in the wake of a glut in the market — a result of good yield — followed by cash crunch after demonetisation. This has hit procurement from farmers and retail demand, leading to a fall in the prices.Ramesh Chandra Lahoti, president of Bangalore Wholesale Foodgrain and Pulses Merchants’ Association, said the Kalaburagi-Bidar crop of toor was very good. He predicts that the price of pulses will continue to drop over the next month before they stabilise.Though many parts of the State are facing drought, Kalaburagi and Bidar — both major red gram growing districts — produced a bountiful crop this year as they received sufficient rain.Even though standing red gram crop on around 60,000 hectares of land was lost following downpour in the area in September 2016, the crop managed to survive on nearly 4 lakh hectares. Raichur is a cotton growing district, but farmers shifted to red gram this season following failure of cotton crop last year. “The coverage increased from 40,000 acres to over 1 lakh acres,” sources said. And while consumers are benefiting from the drop in prices, farmers are concerned. Even though the State government has announced a minimum support price (MSP) of ₹5,050 for a quintal of toor, the wholesale price in the APMC yards is lesser than the MSP. While it was ₹4,500 last week, toor is now trading at the ₹5,000 level. “We demanded an MSP of ₹7,500 a quintal. Despite the State government’s recommendation of₹6,500 a quintal, the Union government fixed the price at ₹5,050,” said Maruti Manpade, State president of the Karnataka Pranta Raitha Sangha.‘Households have halved purchases’Demonetisation has had a role to play in the sudden drop in the price of pulses, say industry sources. The cash crunch after demonetisation has been a double-edged sword. It has disrupted procurement and also hurt retail demand.Ravi Kumar, a trader in the APMC yard in Bengaluru, said that while they were facing a severe cash crunch, most farmers were insisting on payment in cash. “Farmers fear that cheque payments to their accounts will be credited to repayment of crop loans by banks. There is a shortage of cash, which has created a surge in demand for cash payments. Those ready to pay in cash are dictating prices at auctions. They are quoting lower rates as their cash reserves are limited,” explained Mr. Kumar.At the same time, over the last two months, retail demand for pulses has not been as high as expected.R. Vishwanath, a kirana store owner in Mahalakshmi Layout, said that many households had almost halved their grocery bills since demonetisation.Ramesh Chandra Lahoti, president of Bangalore Wholesale Foodgrain and Pulses Merchants’ Association, said that the fall in retail demand was evident in the fall in business at wholesale markets. “In April-May, I had a stock of over 1,000 bags. But now, I have only 300 bags. The cash crunch has snatched the purchasing power of people. This is having an impact further up the chain,” Mr. Lahoti said.
