
November 18, 2016 00:23 IST

Will demonetisation turn farmers into defaulters?

 With the Union government barring all credit cooperative societies from accepting demonetised Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 500 currency notes, lakhs of farmers who have taken crop loans and other loans are facing the danger of being termed defaulters and paying penal interest of 14 per cent.The Reserve Bank of India has barred district central cooperative banks which have thousands of credit cooperative societies attached to them from accepting the demonetised notes, a move which has been criticised strongly by many cooperative leaders and farmers.While the immediate impact of the decision is that the societies have become cash-starved because of non availability of cash with farmers, the worst affected among the farmers will be those who have neared the deadline for repaying their crop loans.“Farmers have taken annual crop loans ranging from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 3 lakh. If they do not return them in 365 days, they will lose interest incentive and will be termed defaulters. Most of them want to repay loans in old currency, but we are helpless,” chairman of the Bidar District Central Cooperative Bank Umakanth Nagamarapalli said.Karnataka Central Cooperative Bank of Dharwad, which has 550 credit cooperative societies with 1.5 lakh farmers under it, has already felt the pinch. “Even a day’s delay will make them defaulters and they have to pay 14 per cent interest. The RBI has said nothing about it in its directions,” said the bank’s chairman I.S. Patil. “We have to function as per the RBI guidelines. This is a blow to cooperative societies that take care of farmers,” Mr. Patil said.Honorary president of the Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha Chamarasa Malipatil demanded that farmers who are nearing deadline should be allowed to repay the loan in old currency notes. “Otherwise, the penal interest should be waived,” he said.Handling chargesUrban credit cooperative banks are being asked to give undertakings that they would pay “handling charges” for the old currency notes. The director of a noted urban cooperative bank in Hubballi said officials of the State Bank of India and Axis Bank asked them to give the undertaking. While one bank told them that they were “likely” to be asked to pay handling charges of Re. 1 for every Rs. 1,000 (in old currency), the other bank told it could be around Rs. 4 per Rs. 1,000. “For banks which are receiving deposits of around Rs. 1 crore it will come to Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 40,000 per day,” he said.Bidar DCC bank in a fixThe Bidar District Central Cooperative Bank, the biggest lender in the district, is in a fix. It has collected Rs. 113 crore in the week after the demonetisation, but nationalised banks are refusing to accept this pile of cash as the Union government has barred all cooperative societies from accepting demonetised notes. “The collections — exchanged noted and deposits — from November 9 have totalled to Rs. 113 crore. But no nationalised bank is accepting it. What do we do now?’’ asked Umakanth Nagamarapalli, BDCC bank chairman. He said over 70 per cent of farmers in the district were getting crop loans from their societies or village branches. “Our problem is compounded as we are supposed to pay a 4 per cent interest on money thus collected. If the government does not accept this as legal deposit, how can we pay interest to depositors?” he said. The bank, which is a federation of 45 branches and 171 primary agriculture cooperative societies, has nearly 4.91 lakh deposit accounts and 2.23 loan accounts. It has 3.75 lakh SHG accounts. The bank also maintains heavy duty accounts like those of the five sugar factories in the district.He also complained that currency chests in nationalised banks were releasing only around Rs. 20 lakh a day to the bank. “This means that we can not transact less than Rs. 1 lakh per branch per day,” he said.
