
December 26, 2016 15:36 IST

Controversies in the business world in 2016

In a year that ended up leaving most Indian citizens cashless, the business world has seen many events that created controversies. And it has been such a year that many of these scandals are far from over. Here are some that rocked the land of suits and money.Snippet DividerThe PM as brand ambassador







 The day after the Prime Minister announced the move to demonetise Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 notes, PayTM, the payments bank and e-wallet app came out with full page ads featuring Narendra Modi. It wasn’t the first time this year that the PM’s image was used to sell a private product. In September, Reliance Jio announced its launch too using the same image. Parliament was told later that the PMO did not give Jio permission to use Mr. Modi’s image in advertisements.


Read more


Snippet DividerThe Mistry epic







 In a saga resembling a daytime television soap opera, the Tata Group saw a major shake up in its management. A boardroom coup, Cyrus Mistry was removed from his position as the chairman of Tata Sons overnight, leading to an ugly spat, all in the public eye. With his subsequent removal from the boards of different Tata companies, businessman Nusli Wadia also took his side against the Tata management, leading to his ouster as well.


Read more


Snippet DividerRevealing a tax haven







 In April this year, the leak of secret documents from Mossack Fonseca — known as the Panama papers — showed the extent of global tax avoidance, shocking governments all over the world. 11 million documents were leaked and political leadership in countries like Russia, China and Pakistan came under scrutiny. And all this was because of leaks from just one offshore law firm.
Snippet DividerYahoo’s hack job







 Three years after it occurred, Yahoo discovered a security breach that enabled a hacker to compromise over a billion accounts. And just three months before these details were made public, the company also admitted that a 2014 hack affected at least 500 million users. It was also in 2016 that Yahoo agreed to sell its digital operations to Verizon for $4.8 billion, an event that is under the cloud now thanks to these hacking revelations.


Read more


Snippet DividerVolkswagen: After the scandal







 After the major emissions scandal came to light in 2015, 2016 saw the German car giant losing money almost in every market that it is present. In April, the company said that it would take an $18 billion hit to its 2015 results as it had to pay for the scandal. Notwithstanding the financial impact, the carmaker also had to recall a number of its models in the US and Europe.


Read more


Snippet DividerThe quest to find Vijay Mallya







 It took multiple non-bailable warrants, summons from the Enforcement Directorate, and being officially declared a proclaimed offender for a court to call liquor baron Vijay Mallya an ‘absconder.’ Now, all properties belonging to the businessman are attached to the case and he still hasn’t made an appearance in his home country. Repeated attempts to bring him back from the UK have also failed.


Read more


Snippet DividerRBI’s bad loans cleanup







 This year, the RBI under Governor Raghuram Rajan decided to clean up the bad loans from Indian banks’ balance sheets. This amounted to Rs. five lakh crore. And this led the central bank to force banks to start a sale of corporate assets, just to tide over the bad loans.


Read more


Snippet DividerRaghuram Rajan’s exit







 He was probably India’s most popular RBI Governor. Raghuram Rajan announced in June that he will not seek a second term as the Governor. “I want to share with you that I will be returning to academia when my term as Governor ends on September 4, 2016,” he wrote and said the decision was taken after consultation with the government. It was a shocker to many, and what added to the story was BJP MP Subramanian Swamy’s constant attack on Dr. Rajan.


Also read 

A governor with gumption
Puja Mehra


 

Snippet DividerRBI's back and forth on demonetisation





RBI Governor, Urjit Patel 




Ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the demonetisation move on November 8, the Reserve Bank of India has come out with a new circular almost everyday, creating new rules for each day. At last count, it was 60 circulars in 50 days. While this has had an impact on the central bank’s reputation, it also seems to have eroded the line separating the government and the apex body.
Snippet DividerEU’s battle against Facebook






Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's co-founder and chief executive.





 The EU’s Competition Commission has accused the social networking site Facebook of misleading the Commission with regards to information about its takeover of WhatsApp. This was the same organisation that ordered Apple to pay back taxes of $14 billion in Ireland and slapped two market abuse investigations on Google.


Read more


 
