
November 24, 2016 10:20 IST

Both Houses adjourned; PM absent

Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha were adjourned for the day on Thursday following sustained ruckus over the demonetisation move and a demand for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's presence and intervention during the debate on the issue.Parliament has been witnessing heated arguments ever since the beginning of the winter session with adjournments ordered almost everyday.  Here are the updates:Rajya Sabha | 3 p.m.House adjourned for the day after it reconvenes and shouting of slogans by Opposition members resumes.Rajya Sabha 2 p.m.Finance Minister Arun Jaitley says the Opposition is trying to escape the debate. Ruckus follows.The Prime Minister is not present in the House after the House reconvenes. Opposition members descend to the well of the House. The House adjourned till 3 p.m.Rajya Sabha | 1.00 pm House adjourned for lunch. Proceedings to resume at 2 p.m.Prime Minister should stay here even after lunch. Your style is making the poor suffer, says BSP chief Mayawati. Rajya Sabha | 12.30 pm Trinamool Congress's Derek O'Brien speaks:''Don't throw youth under unemployment immediately.''Some people who are part of the demonetisation order quoted Bob Dylan. They have conducted a poll on their app. Some people are also shedding crocodile tears."Financial chaos! Disaster! How will the poor buy things? There will be starvation deaths." This was Mamata Banerjee two hours after the decision. The TMC means grass roots.''There is anger among traders, housewives. It is the chorus of the people. Everybody is against black money and corruption. Demonetisation is only one part of the larger steps. What are you doing in terms of electoral reforms?'''Six per cent is black money in currency. What about other forms?  Secrecy cannot be the excuse for putting people in pain. Ninety per cent of debit cards are used to withdraw money from banks. It is a mindset issue. We all want to get to a cashless society. You have made 24 changes from time of announcement.''There is black and white money circulating in the economy due to the economic structure. We have lost 3 lakh crore in GDP in the last two weeks. Challenge my calculation. This is not only about ATM inconvenience. Try as you may to hassle us, that will only strengthen our conviction to fight more. We are fighting for a people's issue: Derek O'Brien.'''Why was the announcement made on November 8?''''We cannot find a solution with someone with hubris. Great self-confidence before nemesis.'' Rajya Sabha | 12.10 pm Naresh Agarwal of the BSP speaks:''Indira Gandhi also got reports that people are with you during emergency.''This is a financial emergency. How much of black money is there in foreign lands? If 6 per cent people have black money, why did you take back from 94 per cent?''Each day a new notification comes from the government. Dictatorships take such decisions. Such things should not be done without parliamentary passage.''You have taken this decision with Uttar Pradesh  polls in mind. Has any direction been given to cooperative banks to give money to people?''Tell us when black money from foreign banks is coming?''At least the BJP has become a poor people's party... Let me accept that. Mr. Modi brought the BJP to power.''I have seen them oppose land reforms. Vijay Mallya's loan written off. How much NPAs do banks have?''We feel very sad when Mr. Modi said people will kill him. Who will protect us from Pakistan if our Prime Minister is unsafe. Too much show of emotion is seen as drama. We are a nation with a tradition of valour.''It is said that you did not take the Finance Minister into confidence. If you have done so, Arun Ji would have told us discreetly.''None gives change for your Rs. 2000 notes. We have said Jan akrosh and not bandh on November 28 because the whole country is anyway closed. We demanded a JPC to find out how your units withdrew money in time.''Rajya Sabha | 12.05 pm ''If the Prime Minister has come only for question hour, we won't allow the House to function. But if he takes part in debate and hear us, discussion should start now,'' says Ghulam Nabi AzadFormer Prime Minister Manmohan Singh speaks:''The Prime Minister has been arguing that this is the way to curb black money, control counterfeit currency and terror financing.''I don't disagree with the objectives⁠⁠⁠⁠. But monumental mismanagement has taken place. Even supporters agree to a short run but will be good in the long run. But in the long run, all of us are dead.''We don't know the final outcome. Fifty days waiting. Short period but can be disastrous for the poor.''I would like to ask the Prime Minister examples of countries where people have deposited their money in the banks and not allowed to withdraw their own money.''Scheme will hurt small industries, the farming sector. The GDP can decline by about 3 per cent due to this move.''Demonetisation move is organised loot, legalised plunder.''It is no good that on each day banks bring out new notifications. It doesn't reflect properly on PMO, Fin Min and the RBI.  Cooperative banking system has been prevented from handling cash'' Lok Sabha | 12.02 pm House adjourned till tomorrowSpeaker Sumitra Mahajan says she has accepted the resignation of Capt. Amarinder Singh from the Amritsar constituency. Uproar continues, as Opposition members shout slogans. Rajya Sabha | 12.00 pm Minister Venkaiah Naidu says the Prime Minister will be in the House at 1 p.m.''Whenever a Prime Minister ever gave a statement of a large magnitude, he clarifies in Parliament. We are not against demonetisation. But we have a problem you did it without preparation and people are suffering. Do we not have the right to convey their Prime Minister, says Mr. Azad. Informal meeting with Opposition An attempt by the government to break the deadlock in Parliament by calling an informal meeting with opposition parties fails to take off.Leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge says that if the Prime Minister or the Speaker call an-all party meeting, they would go. ''Leaders of Opposition parties would meet and discuss the issue.''Leaders of several Opposition parties hold a meeting in the chamber of the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha.Earlier, Minister Ananth Kumar said that an informal meeting was called and the government was ready to listen to the concerns of the Opposition parties.  Rajya Sabha  | 11:10 am ''Please start the discussion. Make anyone speak. Let Manmohan Ji speak, says Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi''The country wants to know. A discussion is half way through. Why can't we complete it''?, asks Venkaiah Naidu''We can start a discussion and Dr. Singh can speak'', says Deputy Chairman PJ Kurien.Rule 187-88 states privilege notice against the Prime Minister.  It is his duty to respect this House after decision... Let a sense of the House be taken. The Prime Minister is running away, says Congress leader Anand Sharma''This is Finance Ministry subject. The Finance Minister is here,'' says Mr. Kurien.Amidst ruckus, House adjourned till 12 noon.  Lok Sabha | 11:02 am The Speaker delivers obituary on passing away of House member Ram Naresh Yadav and renowned Carnatic musician M. Balamurlikrishna.  Opposition members start shouting slogans demanding an adjournment motion on demonetisation. Question hour begins amid uproar by Opposition members. House adjourned till 12 noon amid shouting of slogans by Opposition members.Rajya Sabha | 11:00 am ''Let the Opposition start the debate on demonetisation,'' says Mr.Jaitley.A motion must not raise a question identical to one on which the council has taken a decision in the same session, he says.No decision has been taken. It is in process. So anyone can move a session, says CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury in reply to Mr. Jaitley (With inputs from PTI)  
