
November 21, 2016 10:56 IST

LS, RS adjourned till Tuesday

A united Opposition on Monday forced adjournments in both the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha. After the Opposition parities didn't heed to Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan's repeated requests, she adjourned the House till Tuesday. The House faced complete wash-out.In the Rajya Sabha, the Opposition parties continuously shouted slogans and Deputy Chairman P.J. Kurien was forced to make at least three adjournments. When the House finally met at 3 pm, the Opposition once again continued to storm the well and Mr. Kurien adjourned the House till Tuesday.The Opposition asserted that no discussion on demonetisation would take place till the House mourns the nearly 70 deaths allegedly caused by hardships due to the withdrawal of higher denomination currency, reports PTI.While the Congress, BSP, TMC and the CPI(M), among others, wanted a resolution condoling the deaths to come from the Chair, Leader of the House and Finance Minister Arun Jaitley charged the Opposition with running away from the demonetisation debate.


Read more


 Rajya Sabha | 2.30 p.m.Ruckus continues; House adjourned till 3 p.m.Rajya Sabha | 12.30 p.mHouse reconvenes, gets adjourned again till 2.00 p.mLok Sabha | 12.11 p.mOpposition members continue shouting slogans in the well of the House. House adjourned till 2 pm.Rajya Sabha | 12.00 p.mHouse reconvenes, gets adjourned again till 12.30 p.m over uproar.Lok Sabha | 12.05 p.mRailway Minister Suresh Prabhu makes a statement on the Indore-Patna train accident amid uproar by opposition members. He says there would be a comprehensive investigation into the accident.The Speaker disallows adjournment motion on demonetisation moved by Opposition members.Lok Sabha | 12.00 p.m House proceedings begin again. House congratulates badminton player P.V. Sindhu on her win in the China Open.Lok Sabha | 11.50 a.m House adjourned till noon over uproar.Rajya Sabha | 11.37 a.m "We want discussion," MPs chant. House adjourned till 12 noon.Lok Sabha | 11.35 a.m The Speaker asks Opposition members to go back to seats.Opposition members continue to shout slogans in the well of the House, demanding a debate on demonetisation under Rule 56, which entails voting and suspension of all other business, through an adjournment motion. Rajya Sabha | 11.30 a.m House reconvenes. Ruckus continues. Opposition wants obituary reference for those who died while standing in queues in ATMs and banks, alleges that the government does not want to discuss the cash issue. Lok Sabha | 11.19 a.m Uproar continues, as members are in the well of the House. Mr. Kharge says, "Prime Minister is running away from the issue."Rajya Sabha | 11.15 a.m House adjourned till 11.30 p.m.Absolute uproar over demonetisation.Opposition not ready for debate, trying new tactics everyday to disrupt the Parliament proceedings: ANI reports Finance Minister Arun Jaitley as saying.Lok Sabha | 11.15 a.mMs. Mahajan asks Opposition members not to disturb the HRD Minister when he is replying during question hour.  Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anant Kumar says the government is ready for a debate on demonetisation. Ms. Mahajan says it seems the Opposition wants to come on TV by creating uproar.Mr. Kharge says it's not about TV it's about the problems being faced by people of country due to demonetisation.Rajya Sabha | 11.10 a.m"Start the discussion," RS Deputy Chairman P.J. Kurien tries to make himself heard over the shouting in the House. Both BSP supremo Mayawati and CPI (M) leader Sitaram Yechury are speaking.Please move an obituary, and then we can discuss: Sitaram Yechury tells Mr. Kurien; uproar continues. - ANIDebate later, but first accept our tributes for people who died while standing in queues, and other bank officials: Sitaram Yechury. Lok Sabha | 11.08 a.mQuestion hour begins. Opposition members start shouting slogans.Lok Sabha | 11.05 a.m Speaker Sumitra Mahajan condoles the loss of lives in the Indore-Patna Express train accident.Lok Sabha | 11 a.m House proceedings begin on day four of the winter session of Parliament.Opposition will continue to press for an adjournment motion on demonetisatio issue, PTI reports Congress  leader Mallikarjun Kharge as saying.
