
December 08, 2016 10:24 IST

Yet again, demonetisation adjourns both Houses 
Parliament proceedings were disrupted for the 15th consecutive day on Thursday over the demonetisation move. Both the Houses were adjourned for the day after 2 p.m.In the Lok Sabha, the Opposition continued to engage in sloganeering, demanding a debate on demonetisation under a rule that entails voting.In the case of the Rajya Sabha, the Opposition accused the government of “shameless conduct” by refusing to mourn the death of over 100 persons due to hardships caused by demonetisation, as Opposition and treasury benches clashed forcing its adjournment minuters after it met for the day.The updates:Both Houses adjourned for the dayRajya Sabha adjourned till tomorrow 11 a.m.Lok Sabha adjourned for the day due to Opposition uproar over demonetisation, but passes Supplementary Demands for Grants amid the din.Both the Houses adjourned till 2 p.m. Lok Sabha | 12.10 p.mSome members request that December 12 be declared a holiday on account of Prophet Mohammad's birthday. The Speaker accepts the proposal. No sitting of the House on December 12.Sloganeering begins again.Speaker tells the protesting members to allow others to speak. ''If you are ready for discussion, then only will allow you time''.Rajya Sabha | 12.00 p.mProceedings resume, but interruptions force an adjournment again.House adjourned till 2 p.m.Lok Sabha | 12.00 p.mProceedings resume. Speaker disallows notices of adjournment motion on different issues. Opposition members object.Lok Sabha | 11.20 a.mQuestion hour continues amid disruptions.''Debate if you want, don't disturb the proceedings,'' says SpeakerSpeaker warns some members, adjourns the House till noon.Rajya Sabha | 11.14 a.m.''They [Opposition] are making an accusation, but the moment we stand up to answer them ,they storm the well of the House to protest,'' says Venkaiah Naidu.Chairman Hamid Ansari says ''there is a practice that when the LOP and Leader of the House want to speak, we allow it''.Opposition continues to raise slogans.Congress member Ghulam Nabi Azad says,"we have been demanding a debate for over days. More than 100 people have died. We want the House to condole it but the government has refused to do so. So, we [Opposition] observed a 'black day' outside near the Gandhi statue. This is a matter of shame for the government."He adds: "You are rubbing salt on the wounds of the poor. here is a limit to shamelessness."Meanwhile, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury says he wants to invoke Rule 246 and 247.The House is adjourned till noon.Not a bold move, but a foolish one: Rahul''Demonetisation has devastated the poor, the farmers and the daily wage workers. We want to have a discussion. We want a vote, government doesn't want to'', says Congress vice president iRahul Gandhi. "This is not a bold decision, it is a foolish decision which has been taken without any due consideration."He says Mr. Modi has been changing the narrative surrounding the move.  "He started by saying it's against black money, then against terrorism, then against counterfeit currency and later to boost cashless economy." He adds: "Mr. Modi is running away. If he comes to the House for a debate, we won't let him run."


#WATCH: Congress VP Rahul Gandhi says, PM Narendra Modi's so-called bold decision (#DeMonetisation) was a "foolish" decision. pic.twitter.com/rO1BxNsW3p— ANI (@ANI_news) December 8, 2016



  Day resumes with protests near Gandhi statueLeaders of Opposition parties stage a protest demonstration near the Gandhi statue on the Parliament premises over the demonetisation issue.Parliamentary Affairs Minister Ananth Kumar says the Opposition is staging protest only to garner media space, and the government is ready for discussion in the House.
