
November 30, 2016 11:06 IST

10th day of winter session too sees ruckus over demonetisation move

For the 9th day in a row, Parliament proceedings were affected due to adjournments caused by uproar over the currency issue. Rajya Sabha | 2 p.m.House reconvenes only to be adjourned till tomorrow.Lok Sabha | 12.45 p.m.House resumes. Speaker Sumitra Mahajan says she will allow debate to start if the Opposition agrees. Opposition resumes sloganeering.Speaker: ''Please don't disturb like this [to protesting members]''. Shouting and hooting continues.Matters of urgent public importance being taken up, while the Opposition continues shouting of slogans. Speaker again requests the protesting members to go back to their seats. "You don't want to discuss anything."House adjourned till tomorrow.Rajya Sabha | 12 noonHouse begins with shouting of slogans. Adjourned till 2 p.m.Lok Sabha | 12.15 p.m.''We should accept that some deaths took place after the government announced demonetisation, people are suffering,'' says Md. Salim.Jay Prakash Narayan Yadav reiterates demand for debate with vote on demonetisation issue.Minister Anant Kumar: ''When action is on along the border, there should be no politics on the death of our Army personnel''. Opposition members protest.''Since November 16, we are ready on the issue of demonetisation. You started discussion in the RS but not so in the LS. This is regrettable. Parliament will not gain from the Opposition's move for walkouts. Why give divided verdict of the LS on important issues like fight against black money?: Mr. KumarCongress leader Mallikharjun Kharge repeats his demand for debate with vote: "Government is running from discussion," he says. Both sides say they are ready for discussion."Mr. Kharge, if you all are ready, keeping all things aside, I propose that we immediately start discussion, I will look into the options," says the Speaker.BJD's Bhartruhari Mahtab says, "Every member is aware of the anguish you have expressed. We are asking for a discussion on the predicament that the people of this country are facing due to demonetisation. We don't want any division on black money. Our party is not against demonetisation. We are against the trouble citizens are facing everyday."Finance Minister Arun Jaitley agrees and asks for immediate initiation of debate. Sloganeering begins as proceedings continue.House adjourned till 12.45 p.m.Lok Sabha | 12 noonHouse resumes business.''Have received notices of adjournment motion on various issues, matters can be raised through other opportunities, disallowed,'' says Speaker.Zero Hour is under way.Mr. Kharge rises to ask for obituary reference. "It is not an attack on you, Madam Speaker, but a protest on the issue of the Jammu and Kashmir attack against the government. We want discussion under rule 56 [with voting], we request you allow debate under any provision that provides voting."The Speaker says, "I had said that the combing is on, it was my point of view, not of government. The Opposition had sought obituary reference for those killed in the attack."Opposition members demand debate with vote, say that when the government enjoys a brute majority in the House, why it doesn't agree.`Lok Sabha | 11 a.m.Proceedings begin. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is present in the House. The Opposition raises slogans on the Speaker's announcement for Question Hour.Opposition seeks answers on the Jammu and Kashmir terror attack.The Speaker says, "Combing is still on and information is being gathered."National security issue should not be politicised, says Union Minister Venkaiah Naidu.Thirty-five lakh people got jobs in the IT sector in 2015, 37 lakh this year. Thirty per cent are women: IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad.The Prime Minister has raised the issue related to the expected curbs on US work permit visas: IT Minister.Some members raise slogans.Protesting members storm the well. House adjourned till noon.Rajya Sabha | 11 a.m.''Why there is no condolence for 82 people who died in queues?, asks Congress' Ghulam Nabi Azad. The party has asked for obituary oreference to the killing of seven Army men in the terror attack."Soldiers have been dying. The government has no sensitivity. Ninety people have died in queues," says Mayawati."Discussion is on on currency issue. We are also ready for discussion on border if Opposition wants," says Mr. Jaitley.Ninety people have died, says Sharad Yadav of the JD(U) ."First decide within your party what you believe," says Mr. Jaitley."Poor people are dying in queues," says Ram Gopal Yadav of the SP. "Obituary needs to be held first."Members storm the well, shouting slogans. House adjourned till noon.
