
November 22, 2016 10:48 IST

Both Houses adjourned till tomorrow

Demonetisation continued to rock Parliament on Tuesday too, with both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day after furore over the issue.Here are the updates:Rajya Sabha | 2.15 pmHouse adjourned for the day due to uproar by Opposition,  which persisted with demand for of the presence of the Prime Minister in the House.Rajya Sabha| 12.33 pmWhen the House met again for Question Hour at 1230 hours, members of the Opposition, including the Congress, SP, BSP, JD(U), CPI and the CPI(M), rise from their seats shouting slogans over the death toll following the demonetisation drive announced by the government.House Chairman Hamid Ansari asks Prem Chand Gupta (RJD) to ask his question on lack of medical services in rural areas, but it could not be heard due to the sloganeering by members.Senior JD(U) leader Sharad Yadav raises the issue of death of over 70 people so far after the demonetisation drive and asked who was responsible and what the government was doing about it.Amid constant din in the House, Ansari adjourns the House till 2:00 pm.Lok Sabha| NoonHouse adjourned till Wednesday.Opposition is running away from debate, says Parliamentary Affairs Minister Ananth Kumar.Poor people are suffering due to the demonetisation decision: Congress leader Mallikarjun KhargeMr. Kharge says the Opposition is also ready for discussion. "We want Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be present."Mr. Kumar requests Opposition members to go back to their seats as gthe overnment is ready for a discussion.Zero hour begins.Opposition members continue shouting slogans.Ms. Mahajan disallows adjournment motion moved by Opposition members on discussion over demonetisation.House proceedings resume.Rajya Sabha | 11.30 am As the House resumes, interruptions mar the proceedings. "There was a demand for discussion. It began. Once it started, there was no logic,"' says Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi.Leader of the Congress Ghulam Nabi Azad says Opposition wants discussion, but the Prime Minister should come and listen to members.Members troop into the well of the House. House adjourned till 12 noon.Lok Sabha | 11.20 am Speaker Sumitra Mahajan asks Opposition members not to disturb the Minister while he is replying. "This is not the way to present problems of people. You should discuss the issues. This is not fair," she says.Opposition members shout slogan "Opposition is united"Ms. Mahajan says I'm pained to see this behaviour [referring to Opposition members). House adjourned till 12 noon Rajya Sabha | 11.10 amHouse adjourned till 11.30 am Lok Sabha | 11.06 amMoS Kiran Rijju says situation in Kashmir has improved and incidents of pelting of stones have come down. The demonetisation decision has helped to improve the situation in Kashmir as it has hit terror funding from across the border.                       Opposition members continue slogan shouting.Rajya Sabha | 11.05 amThe Prime Minister should be called, the government has created a financial emergency. People are queued up. They are dying, says BSP leader Mayawati. Lok Sabha | 11.00 amHouse proceedings begin. Noisy scene witnessed as Opposition members start shouting slogans. Resolution supports demonetisationBJP Parliamentary Party passes a resolution in support of demonetisation. Home Minister Rajnath Singh moves the resolution. Opposition escalates attack on government over demonetisation, to hold a sit-in outside Parliament on Wednesday.
