Mar 24, 2015
                            Gov. Chris Christie weighed in Monday on the email controversy surrounding Hillary Clinton and said policies in his own office have changed in the past year regarding state email accounts.  "There's always going to be a story out there about folks ? Secretary Clinton or others," the New Jersey Republican said when asked about the Clinton emails. "My answer is that people should follow the law." Clinton maintains that she didn't break any rules while she used her private email account and a personal server to conduct all of her business at the State Department. However, the issue has exploded amongst Republicans and the media as a potential liability for Clinton, who's considered the presumptive Democratic nominee once she launches her likely presidential bid.  READ: For Clinton, sharp tweets foreshadow imminent campaign Christie, who made his comments in his monthly "Ask the Governor" radio appearance on NJ101.5, said there's no law in New Jersey that requires state business be conducted on state email accounts.  After the George Washington Bridge lane closure scandal burst onto the national scene in early 2014, however, Christie said his office started requiring personnel "to maintain a state email account, and that you conduct business on that state email account."  The controversy in his administration was partly discovered from texts and other communications between one of Christie's aides and a top political ally. The exchanges appeared to link them to the closure of access lanes to the nation's busiest bridge to punish a Democratic mayor. It led to investigations by his own administration, the state legislature, and the U.S. Attorney in New Jersey, the latter of whom is still conducting a probe. Christie has not been found guilty of any involvement or wrongdoing.  Also during the radio program, Christie said he's getting close to making a 2016 presidential decision and will announce in the "late spring, early summer" time frame, saying there are "still things I'm working through and talking to my family about." SEE: Why Ted Cruz is running now Asked if he thinks he can beat Clinton, who's expected to launch her campaign in early April, Christie said confidence in winning should be a prerequisite to kicking off a campaign.  "There's no reason to run unless you think you can (win)," he said. "If I ran, I wouldn't be in it for the experience." The radio appearance came hours after Sen. Ted Cruz threw his hat into the ring and announced his campaign at Liberty University in Virginia. Christie said the Texas senator's decision won't affect his own decision making process, nor his fundraising prospects.  "That's kind of talking-head stuff from cable networks," he said.   
                        