
This is a rush transcript from "The Kelly File," October 11, 2016. This copy may not be in its final form and may be updated.MEGYN KELLY, HOST: Breaking tonight, a stunning revelation from the latest WikiLeaks document dump that has key Hillary Clinton staffers now taking heat over an email exchange that lashes out at two major faith groups.Welcome to "The Kelly File," everyone. I'm Megyn Kelly. We are seeing a growing amount of angry reaction in the last few hours as folks become aware of a leaked 2011 email chain between a trio of Hillary Clinton acolytes. Jennifer Palmieri, Clinton's current communications director.  John Podesta, Clinton's current campaign chair and John Halpin, a senior fellow at the left leaning center for American Progress, Think Tank.First, Catholicism is slammed and then all of evangelical Christianity. At one point John Halpin writes his colleague about conservatives the church writing, quote, "It's an amazing bastardization of the faith. They must be attracted to the systematic thought and severely backwards gender relations."Clinton campaign manager John Podesta describes himself as a practicing Catholic. He does not respond directly to the conversation in the documents we have. But we're still waiting to hear the campaign's explanation for all of this.In moments, we'll be joined by evangelical leader Tony Perkins from the Family Research Council. And then Karl Rove on the possible fallout politically. But we begin tonight with Trace Gallagher for the very latest on this breaking news live from our West Coast NEWSROOM. Trace?TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Megyn, the indication from these Catholic bashing emails is that both Rupert Murdoch and the managing editor of the Wall Street Journal Robert Thompson decided to raise their children Catholic, not because of their religious beliefs, but rather for social and political benefits. Robert Halpin writes, quote, "It's an amazing bastardization of the faith. They must be attracted to the systemic thought and severely backwards gender relations and must be totally unaware of Christian democracy."Top Clinton aide John Podesta who again is Catholic did not respond. Jen Palmieri did writing, quote, "I imagine they think it is the most socially acceptable politically conservative religion. Their rich friends wouldn't understand if they became evangelicals."Halpin writes back, quoting, "Excellent point. They can throw around Thomistic thought and subsidiarity and sounds sophisticated because no one knows what the hell they're talking about." Thomistic thought is the philosophy of Saint Thomas Aquinas. Subsidiarity the belief that things are better handled at a local level instead of a central government. The Catholic league responded to the email saying, quote, "These anti-Catholic remarks are bad enough, but it makes one wonder what else Clinton's chiefs and others associated with the campaign are saying about Catholics and Catholicism."We should point out this is a religious group. The Clinton campaign should covet. A poll from the Public Religion Research Institute showed that likely Catholic voters favored Hillary Clinton over Trump 55 percent to 34 percent. And a Georgetown study shows that in the past 16 presidential elections, Catholics have voted Republican only three times, once for Nixon, twice for Reagan. Again, we emailed the Clinton campaign for a response. So far, nothing.KELLY: Trace, thank you.Joining me now with more, president of the Family Research Council, Tony Perkins. Tony, good to see you again.TONY PERKINS, PRESIDENT, FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL: Good evening.KELLY: And so, the hostility, the hostility toward Christians in this and the one paragraph in particular, Catholics, as this man describes as bastardizing the faith and dismissing the entire Catholic belief system as severely backwards when it comes to gender relations and on and on he goes.  And Clinton's campaign communication director seems to agree wholeheartedly.PERKINS: Megyn, it should be no surprise to those who listen to what Hillary Clinton says. Remember, this is the same elitist vineyard that gave us the term basket of deplorables. Use going further even to say that they're irredeemable which obviously is the concept that stands and start contrast to what evangelicals and Catholics believe as they, yes, they believe and cling to the redemptive work of Jesus Christ.This should be troubling to people that say that they believe that people who actually want to live by their faith are somehow backwater people.KELLY: Uh-hm.PERKINS: Look, there are a lot of Americans who literally simply want to live their lives according to their faith, and it's clear that Hillary Clinton and her team hold them in disdain.KELLY: The thing that seems to really horrify them in this email exchange is that Rupert Murdoch, the owner of this channel, and Robert Thomson, head of News Corp, that they have the nerve to baptize their children Catholic and want to raise them Catholic. Which has these officials who want the Catholic vote -- the Catholic vote is actually proven very important for Democrats in past elections -- held in disdain. They are disgusted by them. I mean, they can't believe that they would want to baptize and raise a baby Catholic.PERKINS: Well, that's stuff people in the flyover states do, not people in sophisticated places do, according to them. Again, this is where Hillary Clinton talks about the freedom to worship. It's okay if you're just kind of go to church and treat it as a social club, a glorified social club.  But if you literally want to teach your children these principles, live your life according to that, you're going to be into trouble with Hillary Clinton.KELLY: Well, but it's not her, I mean, in fairness to Hillary, it's not her, it's her campaign chairman who doesn't weigh in. But it's her communications director and this other guy, the Center of American Progress.PERKINS: Look, let me tell you. I'm not going to allow a communications director for me to speak about something in a way that it's not consistent on what I believe. Look, this is the same campaign that gave birth out of the mouth of Hillary Clinton, the term deplorables, irredeemable, talking about Trump supporters who are evangelicals and socially conservative Catholics. This should be troubling politically for her, not because these evangelicals, maybe the Catholics, not the evangelicals were going to vote for her, but it shows the hostility toward religious freedom, and that is what where these evangelicals are right now, uncertain about Trump, but now they see the hostility from Hillary Clinton that their religious freedom is at stake in this election.KELLY: She was raised Methodist although she doesn't appear to be a practicing Methodist because she doesn't go to church and so on. But you can see certainly how those around her feel about practicing Catholics or those who have the nerve to actually baptize their children. Tony, good to see you.PERKINS: Thanks, Megyn.KELLY: Also here on this breaking story. Fox News contributor and former deputy chief of staff to President George W. Bush, Karl Rove.Karl, good to see you. You tell me whether Jen Palmieri and, you know, this other guy, is not with the Clinton campaign. But Jen Palmieri weighs in, and adds her own two cents, ridiculing Catholics ought to come out with an apology to this voting block which is almost as powerful as the African- American vote and many others.KARL ROVE, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, look, roughly a quarter of the electorate are Catholics, it's the largest swing group. The contrary, just slightly to what Trace said earlier, if you look at the exit polls, since 1972, Catholics with one exception have voted in each and every presidential election for the ultimate winner. The one exception was 2000 when they voted for Al Gore in the exit polls by 50 to 47, but even that was an extraordinary gain for George Bush who got 10 points more among Catholics than Bob Dole's 37 percent.So, they play a critical role in the election. Now, will this become a political issue? I think it all depends upon whether or not both politically interested Catholics and more importantly the Trump campaign make it an issue. This was thinly veiled religious bigotry, not only against conservative Catholics but also against evangelicals. Sort of the back and forth is they're conservative Catholics because they couldn't take the social pressure being evangelicals because that is even more out of the mainstream.KELLY: Right. Because I think it's more disgusting.ROVE: Yes. So the question is rather than talking about Paul Ryan who is, incidentally, a Catholic, what about tomorrow if Donald Trump stands up and takes a whack at these comments and calls upon the campaign and the campaign officials in question to both repudiate him and apologize? I mean, this is the only way it's going to become an issue. In 2000, we had a very active Catholic organization that could have spread this word and made it an issue in every critical battleground state. I don't sense that that is the case in the Trump campaign this year round, it will take him to make it an issue.KELLY: This woman, Jen Palmieri is very -- she's high up in the Clinton campaign.(CROSSTALK)ROVE: Sure. One of her key lieutenants.KELLY: And you tell me what the Clinton team would be doing to the Trump team if Kellyanne Conway or any of the inner circle came out and said something this disdainful of an entire voting bloc, whether it was, I mean --ROVE: Yes.KELLY: -- put the shoe on the other foot, right?ROVE: Yes. Absolutely.KELLY: If they said something about gays or they put something like a voting bloc that they consider in their column. They would be going nuts on it. And they would be demanding an apology.ROVE: Exactly. Well, look, and they mock the deep beliefs. They mock the idea that two conservative Catholics would have their children baptized in the same river where John the Baptist baptized Jesus. I mean, this is really amazing that they would mock them for I mean, what Christians would consider it -- wouldn't consider it a blessing to be able to afford to baptize their children in the Jordan River? I mean, this is so insensitive. I'm going to say that it's insensitive, but it really strikes me that it borders on religious bigotry. But the question is, you started with is, is it going to become a political issue?KELLY: Uh-hm.ROVE: It depends whether or not Donald Trump intends to make it a political issue.KELLY: Well, remember this Karl, remember in the 2008 election when Barack Obama was running, this became an issue for the Democrats then, because he was caught on tape referring to those who are religious as bitter clingers.  It's the bitter clingers that became so infamous.ROVE: Right.KELLY: I think we have it. Listen.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: They feel so betrayed by government. So it's not surprising that they get bitter and cling to guns or religion or antipathy towards people who are not like them.(END VIDEO CLIP)KELLY: So, and that was not helpful. That was not particularly helpful to Barack Obama's campaign.ROVE: Right. Not at all. Not at all. But look, do you think the media without some prodding, without somebody making it an issue that most of the media is going to pay attention to this. Most of the media is secular.  Most of the media doesn't claim to understand or care to understand the deeply held beliefs of people of faith. And so, we can't count on NBC and ABC and CBS, the producers and the news directors saying, oh, this is a story worth covering. No, it's going to have to be made an issue by Donald Trump and his allies stepping forth and saying, this is not acceptable, and Hillary Clinton ought to repudiate it.KELLY: She's been out there. Hillary has been out there condemning Donald Trump's comments about Muslims, calling for a religious tolerance saying that she's been an advocate her whole life for religious freedom and now the question is what is she going to do and what is her communications director going to do when she is caught having this kind of an exchange about this many millions of Americans who have deeply held honest sincere beliefs that she's in no position to judge. Karl, we'll wait to see.ROVE: What about some religious respect in addition to tolerance? And what about some respect for the beliefs of people?KELLY: Uh-hm. Great to see you. Well, we're waiting for comments. We're waiting for some sort of remark back from them. Look, these are hacked documents. Right? This comes from the WikiLeaks dump so it's controversial but so is the content. And you ask yourself, ask yourself what the Clinton team would be doing right now if this kind of thing came out from Team Trump.In the meantime, we're watching Donald Trump tonight to see if he speaks to any of the breaking news tonight down in Panama City Beach, Florida before we'll be joined by Trump's spokesperson Katrina Pierson and former Romney campaign chief strategist Stuart Stevens who will be talking about the road ahead to the next big debate.Plus, leaked emails are raising questions about whether suggesting former CNN contributor Donna Brazile sent the Clinton team inside information ahead of questions at a candidate town hall.Howard Kurtz just spoke to Brazil. He'll join us live with the breaking news.And with the number of media outlets now giving Bill and Hillary the fact- check treatment, Judge Andrew Napolitano reviews the record for us tonight.  Stay tuned.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)JUANITA BROADDRICK, FORMER NURSING HOME ADMINISTRATOR FROM ARKANSAS: Mr. Trump may have said some bad words, but Bill Clinton raped me and Hillary Clinton threatened me. I don't think there's any comparison.(END VIDEO CLIP)(COMMERCIAL BREAK)KELLY: Breaking tonight, 28 days now from the election. Twenty eight days. And a new poll showing how Americans reacted to the second presidential debate. The Wall Street Journal survey was conducted one day after the release of a leaked video showing Mr. Trump making stunning remarks about women on a bus. And it showed Donald Trump going into the Sunday debate trailing Hillary Clinton by 11 points. Then on Monday after the debate, they polled again and Mr. Trump had improved by two points, suggesting the worst of the damage from that tape may have been accounted for.Tonight Mr. Trump is in Florida expected to hit the Clinton camp on the latest WikiLeaks revelations. In moments we'll be joined by Stu Stevens, former chief strategist for Mitt Romney's 2012 presidential campaign.But we begin tonight with Katrina Pierson, Trump campaign national spokesperson. Katrina, good to see you. Can I just get your reaction to that story about the Catholic bashing?KATRINA PIERSON, TRUMP CAMPAIGN NATIONAL SPOKESPERSON: You know, this is not something that, you know, is news to us. We've known Ms. Clinton has had issues with many Americans and Mr. Trump even said it at the debate, Megyn. He said she had hatred in her heart. And yes, these are her staffers, but this is a direct reflection of her. We've seen it in the way that she's addressed many other Americans here recently.KELLY: All right. But let me ask you if it makes any difference at this point. Because we're 28 days out. Trump went up two points from the debate but there is still a nine-point gap between the two of them. And, you know, at this point in 2012 election, we're going to talk to Romney's guys. Stuart in a moment. Romney was up by one and he still lost handily.  Trump is down by nine.PIERSON: Well, and one of these polls you mentioned earlier, we're looking at a six to seven-point margin of error, so I'll take that. Mr. Trump has closed the similar gap in one week.KELLY: You guys love polls. You and the Trump team love the polls.PIERSON: In one week. In one week --KELLY: You can't reject to the ones that we present to you just because they're bad for him.PIERSON: Well, they are a snapshot in time, and you know, we realize that.  Well, no, they are snapshot in time, we realize that. But like I just said, Mr. Trump has been able to close large gaps within one week and that's exactly what's going to happen. This isn't going to be like a 2012.  We have a candidate that is willing to fight for it. Not like the 2012 campaign. Mr. Trump is going to come out swinging which is exactly what he's done today. We have a fantastic --KELLY: What is he doing to add to his support base which we understand is with him?PIERSON: Well, he's talking about his vision. He is actually prosecuting the case against Hillary Clinton. You saw that at the debate as well, and that's why so many people in your Frank Luntz's group that you had, the focus group said that Mr. Trump won that debate and won some people over.  That is very important. It is extremely important for Mr. Trump to continue to outline the differences between he and Hillary Clinton and their policies. And more importantly, her failures after being in elected office for 30 years between herself and her husband.KELLY: Is there any truth, Katrina, to the Wall Street Journal  report tonight that what Trump is actually trying to do now in these next 28 days -- we've got four weeks until Election Day -- is to drive down turnout for her, to depress enthusiasm on the Democratic side understanding that he's not going to get that many swing voters in the middle. He's going to get his base, and he is trying to make her base to be smaller than his base.PIERSON: No, not at all. I mean, the media is always trying to create the Trump narrative. Mr. Trump is fighting for every vote, even those that we know he might not win, he still has to fight for that. We looked at a poll in Texas. A CBS poll has Mr. Trump at 20 percent African-American support in the state of Texas. Mr. Trump is reaching some of those people --KELLY: He should be winning in Texas. He is running as a Republican in Texas.PIERSON: No. African-Americans. African-Americans. That's a big difference. He's doing extremely well with a lot of these people that aren't showing up in the polls. We do his numbers continue to grow at his rallies. Those people are going to vote just as they talked about in the primary that these big rallies will turn into votes, and he broke records.  We're going to continue to see it. This is a movement, this is not a campaign.KELLY: Okay. Good to see you.Also today, Donald Trump's campaign rolling out a brutal new political ad hitting Hillary Clinton. Watch.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)ANNOUNCER: Our next president faces daunting challenges in a dangerous world. Iran promoting terrorism, North Korea threatening, ISIS on the rise. Libya and North Africa in chaos. Hillary Clinton failed every single time as secretary of state. Now she wants to be president. Hillary Clinton doesn't have the fortitude, strength or stamina to lead in our world. She failed as secretary of state. Don't let her fail us again.(END VIDEO CLIP)KELLY: Joining us now, Stu Stevens, former chief strategist for Mitt Romney's presidential campaign and founding partner of Strategic Partners in Media.So, let me just start with you before we get to that ad where I left with Katrina on where Romney was. This time four years ago and just how bad you think the nine-point gulf is.STUART STEVENS, FORMER CHIEF STRATEGIST FOR ROMNEY CAMPAIGN: Well, it's bad. The more telling thing, I think, is that the team groups that Trump needs to get back into this race is Republicans. Any nominee has to get over 90 percent of their own party to be in the game, otherwise you're running out on a Super Bowl field with eight players instead of 11. And he needs suburban women, particularly college-educated women.No Republican is a lost. College educated white voters since the FDR era.  I mean, Barry Goldwater won college-educated white voters and Trump is losing them. So, to get into the game, he needs as many Republicans as he can get and he needs as many well-educated women, suburban women in particular, in places like Philadelphia. And what's he doing? Today he's attacking Republicans, and this attack on Hillary Clinton, I think, just turns off a lot of women that he needs to get to vote for him.KELLY: Just so the viewers know what we're talking about, he went on a tweet storm this morning. And here are just a couple of examples. "It is so nice that the shackles have been taken off me and I can now fight for America the way I want to." And then he takes aim at Republicans saying, "Disloyal Republicans -- Rs -- are far more difficult that crooked Hillary.  They come at you from all sides. They don't know how to win. I will teach them." And that is a couple that he went on from there, Stu.STEVENS: Yes. It's a curious strategy for bringing a party together, which party unity is an essential element of winning in our two-party system. I get that Donald Trump doesn't like everybody in the Republican Party and vice versa, but it's up to him as head of the ticket to try to bring people together instead of being divisive.KELLY: So what do you think, I mean, give us your take on the last debate, you know, which he says all the polls say that he won, which is not true.  But, you know, some people do definitely believe Trump won that debate and he certainly did much better in the eyes of many than at the first debate.  You have a different take.STEVENS: Yes, I thought Trump spoke to his base too much in that debate.  I mean, really, a debate is an opportunity to reach voters in a way that you can't reach them through any other means and voters who you need to get to join you. It's not just to pump up your own voters. So if you look at what he really needed were female voters, particularly these better educated women. I just think it was sort of a disaster for him in that regard. Everything from his manner to that sort of strange half apology at the beginning to this stunt of bringing out the Bill Clinton accusers. I just think the idea of trying to attack a woman for infidelities of her husband, I just think rubs a lot of people, particularly women, the wrong way.KELLY: You know, they say, it's for her role, it's for her role. It's sort of the offender and then the --  STEVENS: Well, I'm glad I don't have to try to spin that. I just don't think it's something that -- the difference between that is so fine, and I get it, but it just -- I don't think the total impression is that he's really going to hurt from Bill Clinton.KELLY: All right. Final question. Final question. Can he turn it around? Any chance? What are the odds that he can turn this around?STEVENS: Well, you know, politics is always about probability and probability is based on what has happened. Can he turn it around? Sure, of course. Is Hillary Clinton the better bet? Yes.KELLY: Uh-hm. He turned it around after the Democratic National Convention. They were running neck and neck and then came Alicia Machado and some other incidents that have now been well publicized. Stuart, great to see you.STEVENS: Good to see you.KELLY: And in just nine days for the first time ever, a FOX news anchor will be moderating a general election presidential debate. And we are very proud of our own Chris Wallace. He was regarded as one of the best questioners in the business. He will moderate the all-important final debate between Trump and Clinton. This make or break event less than three weeks before the historic election of 2016 will be held -- where else -- in Vegas, baby. October 19. And the best place to watch the FOX moderated debate is right here on the FOX News Channel. And then stay tuned for "The Kelly File" live at 11:00 p.m. with complete wrap up and analysis of the night's biggest moments. Don't miss it.Also tonight, several media outlets starting to question the stories of the women accusing Bill Clinton of sexual assault and accusing Hillary Clinton of helping with the cover-up and the aftermath. Judge Andrew Napolitano is here to review the record.Plus, leaked emails are raising questions about whether CNN contributor Donna Brazile sent the Clinton team inside information ahead of the questions at a candidate town hall. Howie Kurtz just got off the phone with Brazile, he's now here and he will tell us what the now head of the DNC had to say.Plus, we'll have reaction from Dana Loesch and Richard Fowler on a busy night. Don't go away.  (COMMERCIAL BREAK)(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)DONALD TRUMP, R-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This crooked media, you talk about crooked Hillary, they're worse than she is. They are so dishonest. Without the media, without the media, Hillary Clinton couldn't be elected dog catcher. I mean that. It's true. It's true.(END VIDEO CLIP)KELLY: From the start of his campaign right up until last night, Donald Trump has consistently accused the media of working against him. Now WikiLeaks has uncovered a number of emails that suggest perhaps there may have been some coordination between some well-known folks on TV and some high-ranking members of the Clinton campaign. We asked Howie Kurtz to investigate that charge. He's the host of "Media Buzz" on the Fox News Channel. Howie, what did you find?HOWARD KURTZ, "MEDIABUZZ" HOST: Hi Megyn. Well, the latest batch of hacked emails disclosed by WikiLeaks is causing headaches nit just for candidates but for journalists and commentators. Donna Brazile, the acting Democratic Party chair is in hot water tonight over an incident last March when she was a CNN contributor. Brazile was the DNC's vice chair while working at CNN but has temporarily suspended her network contract for now.The day before CNN town hall with Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders, Brazile wrote the Clinton campaign, "From time to time I get the questions in advance. Here's one that worries me about HRC." And about the death penalty with Brazile citing these statistics, "156 people have been on death row and later set free. Since 1976, 1,414 people have been executed in the U.S." And this was the town hall question.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)(APPLAUSE)UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Since 1976 we executed 1,414 people in this country. Since 1973, 156 who were convicted have been exonerated from the death row.(END VIDEO CLIP)KURTZ: A CNN spokesman told us no contributors get questions beforehand, and Donna Brazile told me moments ago she's not sure about the reference in her email, but, that "contributors even analysts get nowhere near that process. I wasn't involved, I'm never involved. I find it flabbergasting. It's ridiculous." So what's describing an illegally hacked email can sometimes be more ambiguous in your life especially when a cable commentator doubles as a top party official.It's not unusual for partisan commentators to check in with campaigns, but any sharing of questions before an event would be a journalistic breach. The WikiLeaks stuff also includes John Harwood, CNBC's Washington bureau chief, who drew plenty of negative reviews last year for the way he treated Donald Trump as a debate moderator.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  JOHN HARWOOD, CNBC WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF: Let's be honest, is this a comic book version of a presidential campaign?I talk to economic advisers who have served presidents of both parties. They said that you have as much chance of cutting taxes that much without increasing the deficit as you would of flying away from that podium by flapping your arms.(END VIDEO CLIP)KURTZ: Now, we learn that weeks after that debate, Harwood chastised the Republicans in an email to Hillary Clinton's campaign manager John Podesta, "I imagine that Obama feels some sad vindication at this demonstration of his years-long point about the opposition party veering off the rails. I certainly am feeling that way with respect to how I questioned Trump at our debate."And in a message to Podesta after the Clinton email scandal broke, Harwood included a tweet he had posted, "set aside process. If there's any specific plausible suggestion of nefarious email Hillary Clinton was trying to hide, I haven't heard it." But Harwood and reporters like him attempt to build relationships with campaign officials to get scoops and interviews. And Harwood did try to book Podesta for CNBC. Megyn.KELLUY: Howie, thank you. Joining us now with more, Dana Loesch, host of "Dana" on the TheBlaze TV and Richard Fowler, a Fox News contributor now -- yay -- and nationally syndicated radio talk show host. Great to have you both.RICHARD FOWLER, SYNDICATED RADIO HOST: Good to be here, Megyn.KELLY: So, let's talk about this. Now, the thing with Brazile, I mean, I'll tell you this as a debate moderator myself, I cannot imagine anyone at CNN ever leaking a question to anyone. I mean, it would be the height of unethical. I just -- I can't imagine it. And yet the question, you know, as asked and what was in that email, Dana, was almost verbatim.DANA LOESCH, RADIO TALK SHOW HOST: It's a remarkable coincidence, isn't it, Megyn? The thing is -- I'm with you on this -- I can't imagine someone leaking it, but at the same time, it's Occam's razor (ph), you can't sit here and deny the obvious.The question was almost identical to the one that was asked at the town hall and it's not beyond the realm of possibility to think that perhaps maybe Donna Brazile was able to obtain this question in advance. And then of course, I mean, she's the head of the party. She's going to pass that off to the party's nominee, Hillary Clinton.KELLY: She wasn't then, but she was a Democrat. She wasn't a part of the party, though. She was a Democrat.LOESCH: She did become it.KELLY: Just for kicks, I did -- I Goggled the language and it does pull up the Equal Justice Initiative, which has almost exactly the same language saying since 1973, 156 people have been released from death row after evidence of their innocence was uncovered. So, this may be boiler point language that, you know, death penalty opponents have on their websites. We don't have proof to show collusion.FOWLER: We don't, Megyn, and let me tell you. Let me be very frank on this one. I know Donna Brazile very, very, very well and I just -- there is no (inaudible) that Donna would ever do anything like this, which is the reason why the party chose her to be the interim chair after the leak with Debbie Wasserman Schultz. So, I dismiss this on face just based on the reputation that Donna Brazile has to both me and many people watching tonight.But additionally, and to a larger perspective, right, so there's this argument constantly pushed by the Trump campaign that we saw on the bump into this segment of the media being so crooked and being so awful and being so tainted. But if you look at the numbers, Megyn, Donald Trump has got more earned media than any candidate in recent history.KELLY: But he wants it to be favorable. He wants it to be favorable coverage.FOWLER: But here's the thing, any press is good press as what you learn in journalism school, right? And number two, and I think the most important point is if the liberal media had so much power, why is it that Republicans still have control of the Congress, they still have control of the Senate. If the media, "hated George Bush," but he won in 2000, he won in 2004.KELLY: Go ahead Dana, respond to that.LOESCH: Yeah, well of course, you know, we don't have the White House, unfortunately and I think we've been fighting in spite of media.FOWLER: That's your fault Dana, not ours.KELLY: No more respond, go ahead Dana.FOWLER: Come on, Richard. No, there is absolute media bias in network media, you know that as well as I do. There are also left outlets and right outlets that are both equally biased. But here's the thing, we've had network news and we've had major publishers of newspapers, et cetera, that have been biased for a long time. There is absolute proof of media bias, we know this. And it's not just against Trump, Megyn. Media has been biased against Republicans period, for such a long time.The whole bash (ph) right wing conspiracy. Everything that we've seen from the WikiLeaks emails or the document dump so far, I mean, we know that there is a bias here. I mean, for crying out loud, we had George Stephanopoulos back in 2012 during the debate insert that answer about birth control which then flipped the entire general election cycle to become this whole war on women there, which was crazy.KELLY: There is no question that most of the people in the news lean left and that there is a liberal bias baked in. I mean, the news tend to be young. As a bunch of young people they tend to be...LOESCH: Yes, but they can at least be heard.FOWLER: Come on.KELLY: You know the interesting thing about John Horowitz's tweet, can I tell you this? Is that he tweeted that, you know, that stuff about Trump right -- a couple of weeks after Trump was doing the thing with the belt buckle and Ben Carson and his comeback was extremely was controversial and in the news, and Republican circles, and Democrat circles...LOESCH: Yeah.KELLY: And you just never know. You don't know whether he's got the same kind of emails to Marco Rubio's campaign, to Ted Cruz's campaign. We only have a snippet of the perspective here so in defense of my fellow journalist. Great to see you both.LOESCH: Thank you, Megyn.FOWLER: Good to see you, Megyn.KELLY: Well, with the growing number of media outlets now digging into the stories, from Bill Clinton's accusers, who you may have recognized at the presidential debate, we asked Judge Napolitano to help us review the record and separate fact from fiction. He's next.Plus, with a number of news outlets still challenging the Trump team about his 2005 remarks on women, Dr. Ben Carson joins us with his message for the media.   (COMMERCIAL BREAK)UNIDENTIFIED MALE: From the world headquarters of Fox News, it's "The Kelly File" with Megyn Kelly.KELY: A growing number of media outlets are now starting to question the stories of women who are accusing Bill Clinton of sexual assault and accusing Hillary Clinton of helping to cover it up. We decided to take our own look at the record. Judge Andrew Napolitano is here to help us with that in a moment. But first Trace Gallagher lays out the case. Trace?GALLAGHER: Megyn, Paula Jones was an Arkansas state employee in 1991 at the Excelsior Hotel in Little Rock. She claims Bill Clinton then dropped his pants and asked for sex. After years of legal battles, a judge dismissed the case ruling the allegations, even if true, would not constitute sexual harassment. Clinton agreed to settle the case for $850,000, but Jones' allegations did lead to the discovery of the Monica Lewinsky affair.Then there's Kathleen Willey, a White House aide, who claims in 1993 the president put her hand on his genitals. But Willey didn't come forward until five years later when she was subpoenaed in the Paula Jones case. And a friend gave sworn testimony that Willey asked her to lie about the incident. An independent prosecutor said there was insufficient evidence to go forward.Juanita Broaddrick was initially known as Jane Doe 5 in the Paula Jones case. She gave a sworn affidavit saying she was raped in 1978 by Bill Clinton, but then she appeared to deny the allegations before later changing her story saying she was raped. In 1975, Hillary Clinton defended a man accused of raping 12-year-old Kathy Shelton. As part of her defense, Clinton accused the 12-year-old of being emotionally unstable, fantasizing about older men and making prior false accusations.It wasn't until 2007 that Kathy Shelton even knew Hillary Clinton was involved in the case. And at the time, she had no hard feelings. But in 2014, an audio of Clinton discussing the case and laughing about it went public. Listen.(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)HILLARY CLINTON, D-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Of course he claimed that he didn't. All this stuff. He took a lie detector test. I had him take a polygraph, which he passed, which forever destroyed my faith in polygraphs (LAUGHTER)."(END AUDIO CLIP)GALLAGHER: Yet, Clinton claimed she wasn't laughing about the case but about the absurdity of the system. Now, Kathy Shelton claims that Hillary Clinton put her through hell because of a psychological exam. But the "Washington Post" says, yes, Hillary Clinton requested the exam but a judge denied that request. Shelton to this day maintains that she was examined. Her attacker served less than one year in jail. Megyn?KELLY: Trace, thank you. Joining me now, Fox News senior judicial analyst and "New York Times" best-selling author, hello, Judge Andrew Napolitano. Judge, great to see you.ANDREW NAPOLITANO, FOX NEWS SENIOR JUDICIAL ANALYST: Good to be with you.KELLY: What's the name of the book?NAPOLITANO: Well, I had a couple that were best-sellers. I think the one they're talking about is called "Suicide Pact."KELLY: OK, good. Just wanted to give you a little promo.NAPOLITANO: Thank you.KELLY: So how do you -- There are three that we're talking about here who are accusing him directly, one who is a rape victim whose attacker Hillary defended.NAPOLITANO: The three that are accusing him directly are cases that were never proved or were alleged many, many years after the series of events. The only case in which Bill Clinton paid out any money was after the case was dismissed because they feared it would be reinstated and he would have to go through -- he was sitting president at the time -- more testimony and a trial.KELLY: The Paula Jones settlement to me sounds like a nuisance value settlement. He paid her $850,000 with the vast majority was legal fees. Only $200 went to her.NAPOLITANO: And it wasn't -- correct, and none of it was his money. It was all raised...KELLY: That's what you do to get rid of these matters when you're somebody like the president of the United States.NAPOLITANO: Exactly. And I must...KELLY: But we don't know whether these are true. We don't know that they're not true.NAPOLITANO: We all know that -- we know that they all had serious problems with proof, which is why none of them ever were laid out before a judge and jury.KELLY: Yeah, both Kathleen Willey and Juanita Broaddrick refused to come forward for some time publicly and then denied that he had done anything to them for some period of time. That however doesn't account for the fact they may have been intimidated, he was a man of power, they may have been reluctant to do so.But where I get held up as a lawyer, you tell me, is that people want to condemn Hillary with not believing them and with, you know, trying to silence them and get rid of them, you know, get them out of the public picture. But there was no proof when she was going after them.NAPOLITANO: I got to tell you, I don't think Hillary is at fault in this case, in any of these cases.KELLY: I mean, I'm going to fall out of my chair because a judge is defending Hillary Clinton.NAPLOLITANO: Listen, we're not talking about emails here. We're talking about a wife standing by her husband when claims are made against the husband as to which the proof is, as you say, lacking. Claims that were late, claims that lacked credibility, claims that were partially true, claims that were eventually retracted and then reinstated. What woman wouldn't stand by her husband in that circumstance?KELLY: How about this, the child whose rapist Hillary defended?NAPOLITANO: You know, the file that Trace looked and I looked showed Hillary Clinton doing a professional job to defend him. She wasn't a serious, seasoned criminal defense lawyer but she did what she had to do, what the law permits.KELLY: Well, that's a first right here on "The Kelly File." Judge Andrew Napolitano, great to see you.NAPOLITANO: Good to be with you, Megyn.KELLY: Coming up, Ben Carson and Donald Trump's son, Eric Trump. Stay tuned.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)TRUMP: I better use some Tic Tacs just in case I start kissing her. You know, I'm automatically attracted to beautiful -- I just start kissing them. It's like a magnet. You just kiss. I don't even wait. And when you're a star they let you do it. You can do anything.BILLY BUSH, TV HOST: Whatever you want.TRUMP: Grab them by the (BLEEP). You can do anything.(END VIDEO CLIP)KELLY: It's been just four days since those now infamous remarks surfaced, and Eric Trump, the son of Donald Trump, is offering a new defense for his father, telling a Colorado newspaper, "I think sometimes when guys are together, they get carried away and sometimes that's what happens when alpha personalities are in the same presence." He went on to say it's not right, it's not the person that he is.Joining me now, Dr. Ben Carson, Trump supporter and former presidential candidate. Dr. Carson, good to see you. You know, you also said this is wrong but also said its locker room talk and that that kind of banter goes on all the time. You tell me, listen, I think there's a real argument to be made that dismissing that kind of talk as just locker room talk and regular banter between alpha males is a very damaging message to be sending to our children -- our sons, and our daughters today, that dismissive tone, and nature. Do you disagree with me?BEN CARSON, TRUMP SUPPORTER: Well, it's not dismissing it. That's not what I'm doing. It is horrible. There's no excuse for it. And it's not acceptable. Here's the issue. The issue is, our country is in a tremendous amount of trouble and we're only a month away from the election.KELLY: That's true. But the point on the other side is...CARSON: Listen.KELLY: ...that you have a candidate who doesn't respect half of the country, women. That's also an issue.CARSON: Listen to what I'm saying because this is critical. The country can move in one of two different directions. The Democrats are going on one direction. The Republicans are going in another direction. Look at their platforms. This is huge. But I don't think the average person recognizes the vast difference between the two directions because they're focusing on this kind of thing.It doesn't mean that it's not important. That's such a huge one, when everybody comes along and says this is the most important thing and you can't -- no, of course it's important. But when you're about to go off the cliff, you've got to take measures to make sure you don't go off the cliff. And then you deal with the other things.KELLY: Do you think Trump was right to go after the Republican Party today? He had just managed to -- he was down, I think 74 percent of the party was with him after that video. Then he got it up to 89 percent after the debate and then attacked the Republican Party who he needs to win.CARSON: Well, you know, it's well known that the Republican Party always finds a way to snatch the feet out of the jaws of victory. Hopefully we can avoid it this time. We don't need the infighting. You notice the Democrats disagree, too, but they march lock step and it's so important. I wish the Republicans could learn that lesson. It's so critical because they got to look at the future.KELLY: They have 28 days to do so. Dr. Carson, always a pleasure. Thanks for being here.CARSON: OK, you too Megyn.KELLY: We'll be right back.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)KELLY: From Catholics tonight, I, too, was raised Catholic. I am (ph) Catholic. And I talk about my faith in my new book, "Settle for More" out November 15th. You can preorder now, barnesandnoble.com, amazon.com, lots of behind the scenes stuff about TV news and Fox in general. Check it out.  Content and Programming Copyright 2016 Fox News Network, LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2016 CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of CQ-Roll Call. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2017 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.