
 
This is a rush transcript from "The Five," October 2, 2015. This copy may not be in its final form and may be updated.GREG GUTFELD, CO-HOST: Hello, everyone. I'm Greg Gutfeld along with Kimberly Guilfoyle, Juan Williams, Eric Bolling and her prom date was an electron, Dana Perino, The Five.An angry President Obama said it was OK to politicize yesterday's massacre. Fair enough. Does that opinion hold for all sides or just those who will agree on him? He also said these mass shootings seemed routine. It's true, but what if we actually treated such crimes that way, routinely, not incidents that drown out world events? Perhaps then, we would no longer create an appealing path for copycat creeps.It's the contagion of infamy. Shooters find inspiration in the press that previous shooters get. It's a fact, press that we offer in spades. The worst question is often the first -- who is the shooter? -- which powers an engine of attention that eggs on future atrocity. A loser sees he can garner fame unmet in prior obscurity. I'm with this guy:(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)JOHN HANLIN, DOUGLAS COUNTY SHERIFF: Let me be very clear: I will not name the shooter. I will not give him the credit he probably sought prior to this horrific and cowardly act.I continue to believe that those media and community members who publicize his name will only glorify his horrific actions. And eventually, this will only serve to inspire future shooters.(END VIDEO CLIP)GUTFELD: We know this: shooters are obsessed with previous shooters. Which is why we must share some blame and separate losers from the limelight. Treat this crime like teen suicide and deliberately downplay it to block its spread. At least that's a solution. Not pointless passion at a press conference.What did we do before cable? Where we transfixed in an agitated state addicted to breaking news? No, we heard a bulletin on the car radio, expressed grief and then we pressed on. Now it's changed. We get 911 calls, eye witnesses, friends of eye witnesses, texts, tweets, relatives and neighbor testimonials, commentaries, summaries. We create 10 feature length films around the actions of a fiend. We become the marquee for infamy. We spend hours on the motive, when let's be honest, we are the motive.So K.G., the sheriff has the right idea. Don't think -- don't say the creep's name, but I don't think it's fair enough. I think that we have culpability here in the coverage that we offer nonstop. Am I wrong?KIMBERLY GUILFOYLE, CO-HOST: You're usually wrong. Maybe in this instance, you're right. I think it is fair to do the examinations, to say what part of any responsibility do we bear in terms of glorifying a situation like this that encourages others to come forward and commit heinous acts of violence, taking innocent lives? Yeah, I wish I never had to cover another one of these cases ever again, that no one had to. But at the same time, I feel that we have a responsibility to cover it. Perhaps, maybe not saying his name, but at what point are you not doing your job as a journalist by letting people know in fact, what's going on out there and highlighting the problems because there are complexities that are presented on all end.GUTFELD: I mean, Juan, that's the issue. Is it - there is away to report this, but to pull in facts, so it's not spectacle. It's just a gory crime that it feels to me that we -- the media has a vested interest in making this big, if you have a certain assumption politically about it.JUAN WILLIAMS, CO-HOST: Yeah, I think on both sides. I think there's an agenda to be pursued because people are so deeply invested in their opinion on one side of this issue or the other, but what struck me from your -- your memo was that, you know he was fascinated with this kid who did the shooting in Hollywood, I believe it was, Greg?GUTFELD: Right, right.WILLIAMS: So he is talking about that kid, he's talking about the mass murder in Virginia, who just recently committed that crime.GUTFELD: Yeah.WILLIAMS: And he's talking about how that guy got attention. So what you're saying is not speculative. It's a fact.GUTFELD: No -- every spree killer references another spree killer and they're always trying to beat the number. They're always trying to beat the number.WILLIAMS: It's sick.GUTFELD: And that's why, I mean, I -- at least this is a solution, Eric. I mean, we know the loser -- these losers track each other. Why?ERIC BOLLING, CO-HOST: I -- why not do -- my only issue with the whole thing, yes. There is a contagion of infamy. I guess they're -- like you said, they're trying to outdo the last guy. It can get bigger, better. I will end up dying for now that something I'm willing to do. As a journalist, as someone who works at a news channel, our responsibility, in my opinion is to.GUTFELD: Yes.BOLLING: To bring the information forward, so other people can recognize some of the things, some of the attributes of this guy. What he was doing on social media, what he was doing in life and say, "Hey, you know that guy down the street? Kind of reminds me of that mass killer in Denver or in Oregon." Maybe we should see something, say something and call the cop.WILLIAMS: Yeah, but does it's never Happen? Does it ever happen?BOLLING: Well, I don't know.WILLIAMS: We don't know. I know.BOLLING: Can I just dig one level deeper? What's causing these people to besides the desire for infamy? Is it the -- are they becoming more and more -- like a loner. We'll go on social media, he'll see what everyone else, is they'll see a perfect selfie. Let's see what a great life those people are having. I don't have that. I can't get in that. They get more and more disaffected. Are they get more angry on angry? Now I know there are people who are mentally ill, there are chemical imbalances going on. I'm not talking about those. I'm talking about the people who feel like they're outsiders. The social media exacerbate that problem when they say, I -- I'm never getting in that club. I'm seeing what a great time they're having in that club. I want to screw that club up. I want to kill people and -- if they maybe feel better.GUILFOYLE: You're saying, activate. As to me, like a Lone Wolf type, that in fact -- right?(CROSSTALK)BOLLING: The social media makes someone who is unstable even further destabilized. And, you know you think about this a lot.DANA PERINO, CO-HOST: Maybe.BOLLING: Maybe.GUTFELD: But you could also argue that social media alleviates hostility. For example, I will not be less likely to go on the street and yell and Dana, when I would rather go on Twitter and call her names. So that would - - no, this is true.GUILFOYLE: But it's an outlet.(CROSSTALK)GUTFELD: If you have an outlet on line.GUILFOYLE: Yeah.GUTFELD: That can reduce the hostility in reality because we actually are seeing declines overall in violence, could that be part of it?PERINO: True.GUTFELD: Who knows, Dana? Hypothesizing is what I'm doing at this point.GUILFOYLE: Dana may know.PERINO: You want me to do the same?GUTFELD: I would -- I would like to see your perspective before we move on to the president.PERINO: I didn't want to compliment the sheriff because he is -- that was his reaction, which is to say, "Let's not give him the recognition and the fame that he wanted." And then today, when he did the follow-up press conference, he said that he believed the colonel would be releasing the name of the individual, later today and he said, "But you will not hear his name uttered by anybody here in my police department."GUTFELD: Yeah.PERINO: I thought that was strong.GUTFELD: It would be a great trend you will not hear his name as a movement.GUILFOYLE: Yeah.GUTFELD: You know, that would be something that everybody just says, you will not hear his name. We did hear from President Obama last night. He gave a fairly angry press conference, but that's something very interesting about how it is OK to politicize these events because it may be the only time you can actually say anything. Roll it.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)BARACK OBAMA, UNITED STATES PRESIDENT: What's also routinely is that somebody, somewhere, will comment and say, "Obama politicized this issue." Well, this is something we should politicize. I would ask news organizations because I won't put these facts forward. Have news organizations tally up the number of Americans who is have been killed through terrorist attacks over the last decade, and the number of Americans who have been killed by gun violence. And post those side by side on your news reports. This won't be information coming from me; it will be coming from you.(END VIDEO CLIP)GUTFELD: So Kimberly, basically, what he's giving the "OK, I'm assuming for everybody now, to politicize it." So he did it with those things and another guy can come by and say "Well, actually the facts show that there have been no rise in mass killings and where there, you know gun permits, there's less crime." Do you think he's actually saying that? That it's OK for you to politicize it?GUILFOYLE: No, he's saying it's OK, the president of the united states and he's going to choose when and how he's going to address this issue. It is something that is very consistent with his personal ideology and his core beliefs, OK? He wants to do something about gun violence. His belief and his path are different from others. We also have a responsibility to bring up the facts about soft targets.GUTFELD: Yeah.GUILFOYLE: Gun-free zones. Put up those numbers as well, Mr. President, to show people that have been victimized and gunned down because they simply were sitting ducks.GUTFELD: But it's now that -- if you had said that immediately, someone would accuse you of politicizing it.GUILFOYLE: But I waited for.GUTFELD: Yes.(CROSSTALK)BOLLING: Does politicizing mean lie about it? Because that's exactly what President Obama did right there. He just said we need to compare terror versus.GUTFELD: Yeah.BOLLING: Gun violence. That's not what this is about, this is you want to do a comparison, President Obama? Do terror against mass shootings. If you do the number of people killed in terror attacks, we know 3,000 happened.PERINO: One day.BOLLING: In one day, and a mass shooting is what, five to seven ballpark or so and it happens what, every couple of weeks or so? There's no question the terror outweighs the mass shootings. So it's unfair to say all gun violence. And you want to point at gun violence, that's -- you can you compare gun violence to mass shootings and say gun violence includes cities like Chicago, or cities like Baltimore where there are elevated number of murders and deaths at the other end of a gun, versus other cities and find out what the reason. That is the case.WILLIAMS: Well let me just say, I couldn't think more alike with President Obama on any issue than this issue. I mean, I feel passionately about this because I think.GUTFELD: Passion is not enough, though, Juan.WILLIAMS: No, but let me just say.GUTFELD: And goes that (ph).WILLIAMS: You said politicize, right?GUTFELD: Right.WILLIAMS: Why would the president politicize it that you asked, right Kimberly? But I think that.GUILFOYLE: No, I know why he's doing it. Actually, I'm confused.WILLIAMS: What I'm -- I think, I think that the NRA has politicized this all along. And they have made it -- they've done it so successfully and they have driven it as a wedge issue in our society. So we can't have even an honest discussion because USA -- oh, 3,000 killed on one day by terrorism. But Eric, we have a rolling scene of terror across the country from gun violence.GUTFELD: That's not true.BOLLING: Wait, wait. Hold on. What.GUTFELD: If you look at the definition of mass killings, which is at least four killed. According to the Congressional Research Service, there are on average 20 incidents annually and the increase is negligible, so.WILLIAMS: No, no, no but so 20 -- you're saying, you're saying, Greg.BOLLING: Yeah.GUTFELD: It's bad.WILLIAMS: Oh 20, is OK?GUTFELD: It's bad, but there's -- but it's.WILLIAMS: But what does the president say, we compared to any other industrialized western nation, and we are at the bottom of the barrel.GUTFELD: Yes. But whenever they institute more gun laws, the murder rate goes up.PERINO: The problem of the president saying that was -- it's OK to politicize is that, we end up having this discussion.GUTFELD: Exactly, yes.PERINO: So then the problem -- he has the power to convene, and I think it would have been powerful for the president to say, "All right. I'm not coming out here in anger. I'm telling you tomorrow morning, I want the head of the NRA and the head of the Mental Health Organization in my office, 8:00 a.m. breakfast, we're going to talk this through."GUTFELD: Does it have to be that early?PERINO: Yeah.(LAUGHTER)PERINO: Well.GUTFELD: It's so early.GUILFOYLE: It is.PERINO: I worked early in the White House.(CROSSTALK)GUTFELD: That's a solution.PERINO: But him saying, "It's OK to politicize." I actually don't think that was the word he meant to use.GUTFELD: Yeah.PERINO: I really don't. I think there was a mistake.GUTFELD: But the thing is there were no solutions. He was venting, he was passionate without -- actually, offering anything practical. That would be practical. People actually.PERINO: Because I'm persuadable. If they were able to show me that they -- that actual policy position.GUTFELD: Yeah.PERINO: Or new legislation would prevent these types of mass shootings, I would love to hear that.GUTFELD: Yeah.BOLLING: But he knows that there isn't a policy decision that he can implement.GUTFELD: Right.BOLLING: At that level, that's going to -- that's going to put any measures.WILLIAMS: Well, at least they we could have background checks. I think even at this table.GUILFOYLE: He had background checks.PERINO: He had background checks.WILLIAMS: No, we do not have.GUILFOYLE: Oh my, God.WILLIAMS: Universal background checks.PERINO: But all of the guns found in this scenario, by the ATF when there - - they said they were legally obtained.WILLIAMS: Well, I'm just saying.PERINO: So maybe the background checks need to be changed. I'm not -- I don't know, but.WILLIAMS: OK.GUTFELD: But there was.PERINO: There are background checks.GUTFELD: No specifics offered. OK, coming up, the military's frustration with the president over Russia's air strikes in Syria, may be reaching a boiling point. Retired military officials are fuming, but will Obama listen? That's next.GUILFOYLE: That was a good one.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)GUILFOYLE: Russia is stepping up its air strikes in Syria. The Pentagon is weighing the use of force to protect U.S.-trained rebels targeted by the Russians. And a coalition of countries, including France, Germany and the U.S. is calling on Russia to immediately stop attacking the Syrian opposition and focus on fighting ISIS. The seemingly flat-footed response by the Obama administration has many U.S. military leaders frustrated with the president's handling of the situation. Here are Retired Army Colonel Jack Jacobs and Retired four-star Army General Jack Keane.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)COLONEL JACK JACOBS, RETIRED U.S. ARMY: The most outrageous thing imaginable was the secretary of defense publicly saying yesterday -- I mean his criticism of Putin was -- that Putin was not professional. That the way Russia has been doing it is not professional. I mean, if the worst thing that you can say about somebody is that he's not genteel in waging war and making you look like a dummy, then you've got actually nothing to say.GENERAL JACK KEANE, RETIRED FOUR-STAR GENERAL: Those conciliatory tone and attitude that we have, I think it's got to stop. When no one certain terms, we should be telling the Russians, we are here to defeat ISIS, we're going to fly where we want, when we want.UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right.KEANE: And we're going to do what we want. And you should stay out of our way.(END VIDEO CLIP)GUILFOYLE: Is that so? Moments ago, President Obama sought to assure Americans that he is in control of the situation.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)OBAMA: I said to Mr. Putin that I would be prepared to work with him if he is willing to broker with his partners, Mr. Assad and Iran, a political transition. Mr. Putin had to go into Syria, not out of strength, but out of weakness because his client, Mr. Assad, was crumbling Iran and Assad make up Mr. Putin's coalition at the moment. The rest of the world makes up ours.(END VIDEO CLIP)GUILFOYLE: Huh. I thought he was talking about bad guys, right? But it sounds like some kind of withering heights novel, the way he refers to people. Mr. Assad, Mr. Putin, Heathcliff. This isn't withering heights. This is waging more in the Middle East where we have been compromised, Dana?PERINO: Well -- this -- in that question, the president and also, you know he tends to go for a long time when answering questions at a press conference. About 12 minutes into it, he turned and he said, "OK, wait. What was the question again? The question is this, what are we doing?GUILFOYLE: What's happening?PERINO: And I think -- I don't think his answer was as reassuring to the Americans as they would like. But I understand also that, having gotten themselves into this position, they don't have a lot of room. I think the one thing to watch over the weekend is any action by Turkey. You know Turkey is now also fighting against Assad. But, they're fighting Assad along with us. They're a NATO partner. Russia is now saying that they're going to prop up Assad. They're attacking our people and the free Syrian army. This is a very dangerous situation. And I would imagine that one of the things that Russia is, one, making sure they do not want to do is get into sort of a tangle with Turkey that puts all of the NATO countries in a very difficult position.GUILFOYLE: So how do we handle it and then manage this? Because obviously, a lot of competing interests there, but the U.S. needs to be decisive and have a strong voice, and we haven't seen that yet from the president, Eric?BOLLING: I don't even know what the president is supposed to do. Is he supposed to bomb Syria, Assad? Is he supposed to bomb ISIS? Is he supposed to bomb both? Honestly, until they work out, I -- honestly, we do a lot, we spend a lot of time talking about this. I'm not sure who is on our side and who's not on our side anymore. Clearly, Assad is not on our side anymore, but I'm not sure whether the free Syrian army, if they are all united in not in cahoots with some Syrian groups, we know some of them have left -- I'm sorry, some ISIS groups. We know some of them have left to join ISIS. So who do you support? One group versus another, it's so scary. Again, but Turkey take care of man of north from the south, you shore up Iraq, you push ISIS back into Syria. And then my opinion, you want to strike from the airstrike from the air, but don't him stay, just don't hit -- don't hit a Russian flight base because that will cause a lot of problems.WILLIAMS: You know it sounds a lot like what the president said in the press conference.PERINO: Yeah.WILLIAMS: The president said it's a very complicated issue. And we have, obviously, a difficult decision to make, but I don't see any great alternatives coming from any other source. And he went on to say that when you people have this kind of imagination about Russia -- that was the question he was asking, Kimberly. He said, when he said what is the question? They said, "Oh, did Putin play you for a sucker, basically." And his response was "Hey, let's look at whose economy is struggling here. Look at who is acting out of weakness by going into Syria."GUILFOYLE: Oh my, gosh. Oh, Juan.PERINO: That's a line he uses.GUILFOYLE: Juan, do you really believe that? Yeah, it's a line.WILLIAMS: Oh, you think is Putin is a world power.GUILFOYLE: This is what they're doing. Obama and Josh Earnest, like well you know, (inaudible) their economy sucks, (inaudible) you just made us look like idiots in the Middle East, but you got no money. I mean, you know what? What? That is the worst response. I'd rather them, zip it.BOLLING: What is the right response?GUILFOYLE: Than say something that is ridiculous.BOLLING: I know, but given what's going on now, they missed the opportunity to give Russia a no fly order. They didn't do that, they missed that and that's the mistake.GUILFOYLE: Who created this mess?WILLIAMS: OK.BOLLING: No, but now what?GUILFOYLE: Who created the mess?BOLLING: Now what do you do? Now you have to let this thing play out because, now you're playing with another superpower with a lot of allies.GUILFOYLE: Well, here's what I will say.BOLLING: Am I right?GUILFOYLE: They let it play out. They let it play out and they let it play out and they redlined it.BOLLING: Wait, wait, but now what?GUILFOYLE: They did that and they (inaudible) it.BOLLING: They did.GUILFOYLE: And now what?BOLLING: That's water under the bridge. So going forward, what do you do?GUILFOYLE: Well I mean, this is, you know, the terror house that they built.GUTFELD: You got to do is you got to get rid of Kerry. He's all helmet, and no bike. And you're looking at -- and how did this happen? How did this happen? You first had to deal with Iran. Who is Iran -- pals with, Russia? Who is a Russia pals with? Syria. So basically, when we told everybody that ISIS was the JV team, we are the JV team and JV stands for Jarrett, Valerie.(LAUGHTER)GUILFOYLE: Because it's all under her umbrella. It goes back to Iran, it goes -- which Iran to Russia to Syria. Valerie Jarrett runs this game.PERINO: And we were been.BOLLING: But we agree now, right now, though, it's become -- because of Obama, with the reason why is because they didn't fix this early, but.BOLLING: No. Juan is shaking his head, yes?BOLLING: That would become.WILLIAMS: No, no, no.BOLLING: Too dangerous to do to anything in Syria.PERINO: You know what, you know what?GUILFOYLE: All right.PERINO: You know what President Obama could do to show up some strength against Putin? Arm the Ukrainians.GUTFELD: There you go.WILLIAMS: Yeah, you know what I heard you last night.GUILFOYLE: About? (ph)GUTFELD: What?WILLIAMS: From Kilmeade.GUTFELD: What?WILLIAMS: He said that Romney was right, Russia is the biggest threat and Romney is now thinking of getting into the race.GUTFELD: Yup, and by the way, one more thing.PERINO: Yes, that's all we need.GUTFELD: As what you're saying that this administration was caught flat- footed. As a member of the flat-footed population, I am tired of being smeared.WILLIAMS: Oh, is that right?GUTFELD: Bb being compared to the White House.GUILFOYLE: All right, we'll call them web-footed instead. All right.GUTFELD: Wait a minute. I'm off the web-footed.GUILFOYLE: You have a lot of problems (inaudible).GUTFELD: I think so (ph).GUILFOYLE: Web-MD can address and tell your problems.GUTFELD: I have a (inaudible).BOLLING: No, you don't.(LAUGHTER)GUILFOYLE: Directly ahead -- that's the unicorn. Directly ahead, the FBI reveals new details about the Clinton email scandal. Was Hillary's secret server hacked by others? Details next, stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)PERINO: Moments ago, Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin read the names of the nine victims from Roseburg, Oregon the first time. Here are his very emotional words.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)HANLIN: The victims are: Lucero Alvarez of Roseburg, 19-years-old, Quinn Glen Cooper, of Roseburg, 18-years-old, Kim Saltmarsh Deitz of Roseburg, 59-years-old, Lucas Eibel of Roseburg, 18-years-old, Jason Dale Johnson of Winston, 33-years-old, Lawrence Levine of Glide, 67-years-old. Mr. Levine was the teacher; Serena Dawn Moore of Myrtle Creek, 44-years-old, Treven Taylor Anspach of Sutherlin, 20-years-old, and Rebecca Anne Carnes of Myrtle Creek, 18-years-old.(END VIDEO CLIP)PERINO: All right, so those are the names of the nine victims from the shooting yesterday. The sheriff, as you said, he would not name the shooter, but Greg, that's an emotional moment for us to finally learn the names and ages of the people who were shot.GUTFELD: Yeah, that's -- it's the most powerful part. I mean, you know, you hear, it's just kills you. I mean, emotionally.PERINO: It's -- the several of the people were only 18-years-old. Kimberly. And you know colleges have become your - it was a community college, and it was called that for a reason because I think it becomes where all your hopes and dreams are being sewn together for the future. I think that's one of the hardest things is about, when it happens at a school.GUILFOYLE: Yeah. When you think about that, right? At the community college where you have people from all different walks of life and ages. People, some starting out in life trying to hope for a new career, others coming back to try to broaden their life, their horizons and finish their education, maybe that they had started years ago, now that they have the opportunity. It was really kind of a melting pot, you know reflective of our society. I think it's so important that we take this time and break it into the show to honor those who have fallen, to give respect to their families that are suffering so greatly. Give their names. Show their faces. Think about them for a moment while you watch. Not about that guy and what he did.PERINO: What a shocking moment it must have been, Eric, for families, then, to hear and get the word that their loved ones didn't make it.BOLLING: Yes, and I have a son going to college in a year. You think, you send your kid off to school. He goes there with all the hopes and dreams, and vigor for life. And then one day some crazy person walks in and snuffs out nine other people's lives.The other really strange thing, Roseburg, Oregon, 1959, there was a truck filled with explosives. Pulled up next to a building, blew it up, killed I think 19 people or so.And then this -- the hero, the American hero who stopped the terrorist attack in the Paris train, one of them was enrolled at one point in this college, as well.You know, you don't know what inspires a sick person to do something. But is it something to do with that? Who knows? We have to find out motives down the road, but it's sad for that community.PERINO: And I think this is what, when -- Juan, when we talked about not wanting to politicize it, I think this is actually one of those moments where you take a step back from politics and you focus on that.WILLIAMS: I mean, there's no politics to -- I don't know what the politics or the political affiliation are of the people who died. But they're...PERINO: It doesn't matter.WILLIAMS: It doesn't matter at this point.You know what struck me from the -- from listening to the sheriff, two things. One is, a community college has more older people than a normal four-year school. So you heard a number of people there not only in their 20s, but in their 40s and, of course, the professor in his 60s. I believe it was a debate class. It's very interesting. I don't know if he -- the shooter had been in that class.And the second thing is the sheriff. The sheriff is a guy who's opposed to gun control and wrote a letter to Vice President Biden saying, "We don't want that around here." That is a rural community. Guns are part of the culture and the place. I don't know how he deals with that at this moment.PERINO: I do think it is remarkable how -- how poised he is in dealing with this crisis. I think the sheriff has been remarkable, and we can follow his lead.All right. Up next, mayor Bill de Blasio is under fire for alleged injustice in New York City schools. Details on the racially-charged classroom controversy up next.GUILFOYLE: Nice.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)WILLIAMS: There's a controversial ad out in New York City, highlighting alleged injustice in the city's schools. It's aimed at Mayor Bill de Blasio. The ads is called "A Tale of Two Boards." Take a look.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Because he lives in a wealthy neighborhood, this 6- year-old will attend a good school. Because he lives in a poor neighborhood, this 6-year-old will be forced into a failing school. So he'll likely go on to college. But he'll likely never make it there. We are one New York, divided by two public school systems. Mayor de Blasio, stop forcing kids into failing schools. Half a million children need new schools now.(END VIDEO CLIP)WILLIAMS: I tell you, that's a powerful ad. But guess what? Some people are saying it's racist. In fact, you know, Bertha Lewis, who used to be with ACORN -- you remember her? -- racist, she says, because it calls to account the teachers' unions. So I'm just going to go around the table. Is that a racist ad to you?GUILFOYLE: I mean, you lost me when you said ACORN. So the credibility is out the door. Do you have a better person saying that?WILLIAMS: Well, I'm going to tell you, I can imagine that there are people. I mean, I know the Arne Duncan, education secretary who quit today, he is under attack by the NEA, and the NEA's endorsement's being sought by all the Democratic presidential campaigns. And guess what? Arne Duncan actually supported charters, put more money into charters recently, but it's not popular with the Democratic rank and file.GUILFOYLE: Why not?BOLLING: That ad is not racist. It's just stating fact.WILLIAMS: That's what I feel.BOLLING: The vast majority -- there is a bifurcation in schools. Not just in New York, but across the country. So why not fix it? How much money does the Department of Education have to spend? Can't pay final sum of it into -- listen.WILLIAMS: That's what I'm saying.BOLLING: Away from the Common Core and into things like school choice?WILLIAMS: Yes, but you see, then the -- this is so crazy to me, but they say, Dana...GUILFOYLE: Well, de Blasio tried to close charter schools. There's -- I mean, the mother was calling -- I know.WILLIAMS: But he's been forced. Because guess what? They had a rally today, and they had 15,000 people.GUILFOYLE: Right.WILLIAMS: I mean, people really want it. I don't...PERINO: The biggest rally during the mayor's election, in that run-up to that race, was down in Brooklyn; and it was actually mostly African- American families who showed up that said, "We actually really want charter schools." So I think the ad is effective and, you know, it's a hit dog hollers. So when the -- when the mayor complains...GUILFOYLE: Wow.BOLLING: Dana.GUILFOYLE: Dana Perino.PERINO: It's an old-fashioned western saying.GUILFOYLE: We don't encourage this at home.GUTFELD: It's interesting the thing about leftists. You know, when the child is in the womb, they're pro-choice, and once it's born, there's no choice. So they don't want you to live, and they don't want you to learn.When a good -- the reason why a good idea is frightening is because it threatens your power base. And nothing scares the liberal more than being exposed as unnecessary. And they have always talked about how -- so open- minded they are, until there's an idea that threatens their status quo. Then they shut down.WILLIAMS: Well, I just -- I don't understand how, if the status quo is that you condemn a child to go to a failing school, right -- you hear all this talk about the cradle-to-prison pipeline, right?GUTFELD: Right.WILLIAMS: If you have the opportunity to break it, why wouldn't you say, "We're going to do everything. We're going to experiment. We're going to have charter schools, magnet schools"?BOLLING: You know why, Juan. You know exactly why.GUTFELD: Yes, but here's the thing. They're so progressive. They're for gay marriage and pot legalization, but not school choice...BOLLING: You know why.GUTFELD: ... because it's power.BOLLING: Why is it? The teachers' union. You offer school choice, and you offer charter schools, and you point the finger at schools and teachers and administrations that aren't performing; and no -- the union doesn't want to do that. They like mediocrity. They want everyone, all of them, make sure they get paid the right level, no matter how good or bad they are.WILLIAMS: Well they say that most kids, of course, aren't in charter schools, and that you don't want to relegate the rest of the kids to some, you know, dump that you say, "We don't care about." But that's not the issue and believe me, if you can save some children, save them now. Because ten years from now, that kid is maybe beyond saving.PERINO: Well, that's what -- and that's what the ad says, that he probably won't even get to college.WILLIAMS: Yes.GUILFOYLE: They're saying, like, step up, de Blasio. Hello, what have you done for us lately or for children ever in this city?WILLIAMS: Well, what about teachers? So Greg, what would you say to a teacher who said, "I feel threatened by all this"?GUTFELD: Become a better teacher.GUILFOYLE: Yes. Don't suck at your job.PERINO: Go work in a charter school.GUTFELD: Go work in a charter school, but maybe you're not good enough.GUILFOYLE: Not good enough, right.WILLIAMS: Directly ahead. Hilary returns to "Saturday Night Live," surprising Twitter news. And Eric is going to love this. Sorority selfie time at the ballpark. That's all in "The Fastest Seven," up next.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)BOLLING: Welcome back. Time for...(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)GRAPHIC: Fastest 7(END VIDEO CLIP)BOLLING: ... "The Fastest Seven Minutes on Television." Three awesome stories, seven alive minutes, one amiable host. First up: remember this hilarious "Saturday Night Live" skit from 2008?(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)AMY POEHLER, FORMER CAST MEMBER, NBC's "SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE": Thank you for coming, I love your outfit.HILLARY CLINTON (D), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, I love your outfit.POEHLER: Why, thank you.CLINTON: I do want the earrings back.POEHLER: Oh. (LAUGHTER)CLINTON: Do I really laugh like that?(END VIDEO CLIP)BOLLING: Well, fast forward seven years to the season premiere of "SNL" 41. Hillary Rodham Clinton is scheduled to appear this weekend. The latest in high-stakes appearance of her current push to show her funny personable side. Hilarious Hillary will be assisted by a truly funny female, Kate McKinnon.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)VANESSA BAYER, CAST MEMBER, NBC'S "SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE": Action.KATE MCKINNON, CAST MEMBER, NBC'S "SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE": Citizens, you will elect me. I will be your leader.BAYER: Don't worry, we'll just delete that one off your phone.MCKINNON: We know a thing or two about that, right?(END VIDEO CLIP)BOLLING: K.G., Hillary returns.GUILFOYLE: Yes. That's very funny. I just love it when they do the Hillary Clinton, you know, impersonation. I've got to say, that's the one, OK, one reason to vote for her.BOLLING: Greg, you agree.GUTFELD: You really liked the Sarah Palin ones, too?GUILFOYLE: Actually, I think she does a nice job.BOLLING: You know, when Hillary shows up for her appearance, they're actually bringing in the very best puppeteers, just to work her so she doesn't appear stiff.BOLLING: You have the Pez?GUTFELD: No, I don't. Not with me. I should have brought it.BOLLING: Dana, did you like Amy Poehler?PERINO: Yes. I like her a lot, and I loved her book.GUTFELD: Of course you read her book.PERINO: Yes, I did read it. I...GUILFOYLE: She's her own book club.PERINO: I think this is smart for Hillary, but I don't know how much it actually gets her. And I think that she's in trouble. I think Biden's people are -- check out the story in The Wall Street Journal today, posted this afternoon. Donors in the Democratic Party quietly leaving Hillary's camp, waiting to see if Biden is going to get in.BOLLING: What about "SNL"? They're giving her -- giving her a little boost. The happy, funny, humorous and heartfelt Hillary.WILLIAMS: Well, I remember, you know, was it Jeb Bush was the first guest on Colbert, right? And I thought that was good. Actually, I was surprised that Bush did that, because I think there's a risk involved. But he came out terrific.I imagine Hillary gets a little boost out of this.But let me just tell you. I think there's pressure on "SNL" to show that they're not biased. So imagine that they do -- Eric, let's put together a skit right here. Imagine Hillary trying to handle her email and screwing it up. Now does that help or hurt her?BOLLING: I don't think they'll do that. I think they'll do something else. They'll find another way.PERINO: I think they'll find a way to make fun of us for focusing on Hillary Clinton.BOLLING: You can always look at how they handle the Donald Trump skit.All right. We've got to move on. OMG, WTH, Twitter may get longer now. A new report by re/code says Twitter may be planning to increase the 140- character limit. Twitter long is going to be simply keeping the 140- character limit, but soon those long links, Twitter handles and hash tags like #wakeupAmerica won't count against the 140.GUILFOYLE: Oh, my gosh.BOLLING: Dana.PERINO: Well, the thing -- I like 140 characters because I like the quick, pithy responses. I like how it makes you focus on getting, like, the best word.GUILFOYLE: Tight language.PERINO: I love it. So I would not go for the longer. Though I do think that the -- your Twitter handle name, if that doesn't count, that's good.GUTFELD: I think hash tags have got to count. Because then you're just going to be flooded with these hash tags that are so stupid.By the way, the worst thing about Twitter is political commentary...GUILFOYLE: I don't know.GUTFELD: ... that isn't necessary. So let's say you'll say -- you'll be tweeting and go, "Wow, it's really cold outside."And someone will tweet, "Just like Obama's heart." No, Twitter is not for that. Just leave that out of it. It's supposed to be pointless. We have other problems.PERINO: It's for dog pictures.GUILFOYLE: You have a lot.GUTFELD: Dog pictures. Dog pictures.WILLIAMS: I think it's great, because it's 140 characters. So it's like, to me, defeating the whole idea.BOLLING: Sometimes these links are 100 characters themselves.PERINO: Well, you've got to go to Tiny URL.BOLLING: Tiny URL. But there's a lot of work.GUILFOYLE: Well, they have to, you know, meet the demands of the market. If this is what the people want, listen, #listen.PERINO: Right.GUTFELD: Don't want it.PERINO: Spoken like a true capitalist.BOLLING: God bless America.GUILFOYLE: You guys love Twitter. Come on.BOLLING: All right. They say America's youth are our future. Keep that in mind when you watch this clip, possibly the funniest thing you're going to see all week.Sorority girls at a ball game cheering on the Diamondbacks? No. Watching the game? No. Finding every possible angle for that perfect selfie. Watch.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hold on, take a selfie with a hot dog. Selfie with the churro. Selfie of a selfie. Wait, one more, now. Better angle.Check it, did that come out OK?UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's the best one of the 300 pictures I've taken of myself today.UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Every girl in the picture is locked into her phone. Every single one is dialed in. Welcome to parenting in 2015. They're all just completely transfixed by the technology.(END VIDEO CLIP)BOLLING: Juan, that's great stuff.GUILFOYLE: That was good.BOLLING: ... the Diamondbacks. They're already out of the playoffs.WILLIAMS: You know, this reminds me of once at the New York Knicks game here in New York City, Walt Frasier, who's the announcer, he's sitting there. And a ball goes flying out of bounds, and it hits a woman in the front row in the head. This poor woman, right? And Frasier says, "She should have been watching the game."BOLLING: In fact they -- they keep going back to these girls. Ball one, they go back to the girls. Ball two, they go back to the girls. The next pitch, the batter hit a line drive up the middle, and they stayed on these girls. They never saw the play.GUILFOYLE: Oh, my gosh. I know, what are you going to do?But this is actually a little snapshot, you know, a selfie of social media today. This is the reality. This is what's happening. People are constantly doing this. They run it through five different filters, and they tan themselves. Whatever they need to do. I've done that once or twice.But yes, this is what's happening out there. Honest to God. I mean, I'm happy they're at the game.GUTFELD: I would much rather have that sitting behind me than a drunk Eagles fan urinating on my head.GUILFOYLE: Which has happened.GUTFELD: Which has happened.GUILFOYLE: Yes.GUTFELD: I mean, this is an -- this is an improvement. This is an improvement.PERINO: He's so short.GUTFELD: My head does look like a toilet.BOLLING: Don't we have that failed pucker picture? Do you have that one, Mina, by any chance?PERINO: Can I just tell you something, Eric? If you're a sorority girl and you buy a ticket to go to the Diamondbacks game, the Diamondbacks should be glad that they're there. Also, you don't go to watch the game. You go to hang out with your friends and see the boys.GUILFOYLE: They're not even seeing any of the dudes. They're not even looking up. They're getting nothing.BOLLING: Wait, where's the pucker picture? Do we have it? There it is. See? You know?GUTFELD: Yes, that's original.GUILFOYLE: Oh, my gosh.WILLIAMS: Wait, you know what those girls are going to do? They're going to sue the announcers for mocking them.BOLLING: I don't know.PERINO: Are they really?GUILFOYLE: No.BOLLING: All right. We want to save some time. We have a very special "One More Thing" coming up next.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)GUTFELD: Time for "One More Thing" -- Kimberly.GUILFOYLE: Thank you.New York City's finest showed up today to pay respect to one of the greatest detectives in NYPD history, Joseph Coffey. He was laid to rest at St. Monica's Roman Catholic Church in a service led in prayer by Father Peter Colapietro.Big Joe was larger than life. He had a 140 I.Q. and a photographic memory. The bad guys were no match for him. The Black Panthers; Columbia riots; LaGuardia bombing; taking the confession and putting away the Son of Sam killer, David Berkowitz; taking down La Cosa Nostra mafia John Gotti; Paul Castellano.He protected boxer Joe Frasier from assassins and danced with first lady Nancy Reagan at the Waldorf Astoria one night when he was assigned to guard her.Above all, Big Joe was an incredible family man with an amazing three children and six wonderful grandchildren. And his son, Joe, is a great- godfather to my son Ronan. On behalf of myself, Ronan, and his father, Eric, the Guilfoyle and Villency families, we love you and we miss you dearly. God bless you, Big Joe. You were world-class.BOLLING: Well done.WILLIAMS: That's terrific.GUTFELD: Juan.WILLIAMS: Well, so here's a little bit of great news. Tim Tebow surprised a young fan who's suffering from cancer at a hospital in Jacksonville, Florida. Thirteen-year-old Nathaniel Nelson, a huge Gator fan, broke into tears just at seeing Tebow. But listen to this.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)TIM TEBOW, PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL PLAYER: I've heard so much about you. You probably had, like, 15 people contact me and tell me about you and how awesome you are and how so many people are praying for you. So I said, I just have to come see him.UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Wow, thank you for visiting me.TEBOW: Of course, it's my pleasure.(END VIDEO CLIP)WILLIAMS: Wow. Talk about Tim Tebow being a class act, that's wonderful.GUTFELD: All right, Eric.BOLLING: That is a good man, good man right there. And pray for that young man, as well.OK. So tomorrow, I plan to sit down and spend a full 30 minutes on "Cashin' In" with the GOP frontrunner, Donald Trump. I want to ask him about the Oregon shootings, how do you -- should you be politicizing tragedies, as President Obama says? Do a little foreign policy with Syria and Iraq and what we should be doing there and whether or not President Putin is big-footing the United States.Some domestic policy, I plan to ask him about his tax plan, because I have a lot of question about it. I gave it an A plus, but I want a few things cleared up.And then his personal life. I want to ask him what it's like to be on that campaign and how does he keep the energy up. And what does he do to do that.And I think it's going to be very, very interesting. So 11:30 tomorrow morning, "Cashin' In."Dana Perino.PERINO: All right. So earlier this week, I took a trip to Nashville with my husband. We went for our 17th wedding anniversary, and I got to meet Dierks Bentley. But mostly, I got to meet Jake, his dog. And so I got a picture. Of course, you know that meant a lot to me.We were at the Opry. So we got to go backstage. It was the 90th anniversary of the Grand Ole Opry. It was a fabulous experience. This is a piece of Americana that, if you have not visited, you really should. I plan to go back.Now Jasper, apparently, was a little annoyed that I got to meet Jake Bentley and sent a little picture my way. But he forgave me when I got home.GUILFOYLE: Doesn't look like it.PERINO: But it was really fun. Grand Ole Opry.GUTFELD: Just two dog pictures? I think you cheated America.PERINO: I can -- I can make up for it next week.GUTFELD: All right. We've got one minute left."Greg Gutfeld Show" Sunday, 10 p.m. Watch. It's going to have a lot of fun stuff.But first...(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)GUTFELD: Greg's Halloween Tips.(END VIDEO CLIP)GUTFELD: Halloween is just 27 days away. Now, I want to warn you, when you're picking out a costume, you got to make sure that it's loose-fitting. Last year mine was too tight. Made it very hard for me to move around, as you can see by this footage.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)(CHEETAH WALKING WITH HEAD STUCK IN BOWL)(END VIDEO CLIP)GUTFELD: I was moving quite slowly. And also the helmet, I forgot to put eyeholes. And -- but the great thing about it is attracted quite a crowd as I ventured out into the woods.But anyway, actually if anybody is wondering, this leopard got tranquilized and they removed the thing from it. Now he's living in Vermont. He's opened a bed and breakfast.Yes.PERINO: I'm going to be on "O'Reilly" tonight.GUTFELD: I don't care.GUILFOYLE: Is he also making -- is he also making jam in Vermont?GUTFELD: Who doesn't make jam in Vermont?PERINO: Jam in Vermont? I think you mean (UNINTELLIGIBLE)...GUILFOYLE: That, too.BOLLING: I love Vermont.GUTFELD: Who doesn't love Vermont? All right.PERINO: Bernie Sanders loves Vermont.GUTFELD: All right. We'll be back here on Monday, I hope.Content and Programming Copyright 2015 Fox News Network, LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2015 Roll Call, Inc. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of Roll Call. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2017 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.