Jan 19, 2018, 08:19 IST
Kanpur: Final tally of seized demonetised currency exceeds Rs 97 crore | Kanpur News - Times of India
			


  KANPUR:The final tally of seized demonetised currency, country's one of the biggest haul post demonetisation, in the city exceeded Rs 97 crore while the number of people arrested in the case has now gone up to 16.
  
  
  The Home department meanwhile in the state capital stated prima facie no terror link had been established. It might be noted that Union government had banned currency notes particularly in the denomination of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 in November, 2016 to flush out black money, eliminate fake currency notes particand stop terror-funding.
  

  Raids were conducted on a tip-off from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Special team of IG Zone Alok Singh. According to SSP Akhilesh Kumar, the arrested people include Anand Khatri, a prominent city builder and two other locals including Santosh Yadav, a professor of DAV college and Mohit Dhingra, besides a woman Rajeshwari of Andhra Pradesh, Koteshwar Rao of Telangana, Sanjeev Agarwal of Kolkata (West Bengal), Ali Husain of Andhra Pradesh, Maneesh Agarwal of Howrah (West Bengal). Others arrested were Santosh Pathak and Sanjay Kumar Singh of Varanasi, Ramashray, Sanjay Rai and Dhirendra from Mirzapur, Sant Kumar Yadav of Baghpat, Omkar Yadav of Lucknow and Anil Yadav of Saharanpur.
  



  The cash includes demonetised notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 denominations worth Rs 97.60 crore. The raids were conducted on a tip off from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) that was passed on to inspector general of police (zone) Alok Singhs office. The arrested persons have been booked under Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Act, 2017, besides various other sections including 420, 511 and 120 (b) of IPC and sent to jail.
  

  SSP further said Rs 95 crore belonged to Anand Khatri, the builder, and over a dozen others owned the remaining amount. "The quantity of Rs 1,000 notes was more in comparison to Rs 500 notes," said SSP further. SP East Anurag Arya further elaborated about the SBN act that the Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Act, 2017, was passed by Parliament in Feb last year with a view to eliminating the "possibility of running a parallel economy" using the old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes that have been demonetised.
  

  The government had notified the law that makes the holding of more than 10 scrapped notes punishable with a minimum fine of Rs 10,000. The Act ends the liability of the Reserve Bank of India and the government on the demonetised currency notes.
  

  The officer said the banned currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 denominations, were stacked in form of a bed in separate rooms at the under construction house of Anand Khatri. Officials said that the matter has been transferred to the IT department for investigating the source of those banned notes.
  
  It may be recalled, separate police teams acting on a specific tip-off that a gang of old currency racketeers from eastern parts including Varanasi and Mirzapur districts, of the state, besides West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana states were putting up at different hotels inluding hotel Gagan, hotel Bliss and hotel Namaskar located in separate parts of the city with banned currency, raids were conducted and 13 people were arrested. On the tip-off provided by them, three others including Anand Khatri, a prominent city builder and two other locals including Santosh Yadav, a professor of DAV college and Mohit Dhingra, were arrested.
  

  Simultaneously raid was conducted at the under construction house of Khatri near Gole Chauraha in Swaroop Nagar and demonetized currency amounting to Rs 96.60 crore was seized from there. SSP Akhilesh Kumar further said
  

  Rs 95 crore belonged to Anand Khatri, the builder, and over a dozen others owned the remaining amount.Inspector General (Kanpur Range) Alok Singh, who has provided City police specific inputs, was supervising the case.
  

  Initially the arrested persons tried to mislead police, but later during sustain grilling they broke down and confessed to their crime, the police said.
  
  A senior police officer, who was leading the investigation team, said that the arrested persons were part of old currency racket, which was active in the exchange of demonetized currency notes. "The police will investigate the source of the currency and the link of the arrested people with the hawala counterparts in other parts of the country," he said.
  

  Earlier, in November last, the NIA had recovered Rs 36.34 crore in old notes in Delhi and arrested nine persons in connection with its probe into Jammu and Kashmir terror funding. Sources said nine persons arrested are "agents" who were collecting money at reduced rates from various persons and were converting the money into new notes with the help of some bank
  
  officials.
  
Get latest news & live updates on the go on your pc with News App. Download The Times of India news app for your device.