Jan 21, 2018, 22:55 IST
Author takes exception to ox on stage; vents ire at organisers | Mysuru News - Times of India
			


  Mysuru: It was not an auspicious start to the national seminar on migration that was organised as part of Bahuroppi-2018, with lawyer and writer Nandita Haskar, one of the chief guests at the event, taking umbrage at the organisers dragging an ox on to the stage, given the current political scenario in the country.
  
  
  "I would have walked out of the event had I known about this earlier. It's an insult to do this. I strongly protest to the manner in which the inaugural ceremony has been organised. It was an unwarranted display given today's political situation," said Nandita on Saturday, asking the audience to give her a round of applause if they agreed with her views. Most of the members in the audience stood up to give her a rousing reception.
  

  The organisers had brought an ox and two fortune tellers on to the dais for a performance for the inaugural ceremony. Nandita was none too pleased with the display, and was vocal in voicing her displeasure about the same.
  

  Expressing concerns over the rising anger against the 'other' and the 'outsider', Nandita cited the case of the exodus of people from the Northeastern states from Bengaluru in 2010. "The hotel industry will be severely affected if people from the Northeastern states return to their home," said Nandita, adding that there was no easy solution to these problems. "Migrant workers have a smile on their face, and it is hard for people to recognise their problems," she added.
  

  'Migrant workers suffered because of demonetisation'
  

  Senior journalist and author P Sainath, who was at the inaugural ceremony, said that demonetisation had been particularly harsh on migrant workers. "Those working outside their home state sent money to their families through postal orders, and this collapsed in the wake of demonetisation. Members of their families underwent many hardships as a result. Farmers who were relying in their children, working at different places, to send them money, also found themselves in a difficult position. Migrant workers send money home almost every week," said Sainath. The veteran scribe said that many farmers in those villages of Maharashtra that bordered Karnataka would visit the neighbouring state to cut sugarcane. "Each worker earned Rs 500, and they were generally paid in 500-rupee notes. This practice stopped when demonetisation was implemented. When a family that had Rs 4 lakh in cash went to the bank, they faced a lot of trouble in the form of having to endure inquiries from cops," said Sainath.
  

  Pointing to flaws in the biometric authentication system, Sainath said that finger impressions of migrant workers constantly changed given the nature of their work. "As a result, they are not getting rations. People are not just migrating from village to cities, they are moving from city to city, village to village," said Sainath, expressing his appreciation to bank employees, who worked hard in the wake of demonetisation.
  

  Various topics related to migration and human rights are on the anvil as part of the two-day national seminar. A session called 'My Experiences' was one of the highlights on Saturday.
  

  Eminent Marathi playwright Mahesh Elkunchwar and Bala Gurumurthy also spoke on the subject of migration.
  

Get latest news & live updates on the go on your pc with News App. Download The Times of India news app for your device.